
THE BRONZE RING


Once upon a time in a certain country there lived a king whose palace
was surrounded by a spacious garden. But, though the gardeners were many
and the soil was good, this garden yielded neither flowers nor fruits,
not even grass or shady trees.

The King was in despair about it, when a wise old man said to him:

"Your gardeners do not understand their business: but what can you
expect of men whose fathers were cobblers and carpenters? How should
they have learned to cultivate your garden?"

"You are quite right," cried the King.

"Therefore," continued the old man, "you should send for a gardener
whose father and grandfather have been gardeners before him, and very
soon your garden will be full of green grass and gay flowers, and you
will enjoy its delicious fruit."

So the King sent messengers to every town, village, and hamlet in his
dominions, to look for a gardener whose forefathers had been gardeners
also, and after forty days one was found.

"Come with us and be gardener to the King," they said to him.

"How can I go to the King," said the gardener, "a poor wretch like me?"

"That is of no consequence," they answered. "Here are new clothes for
you and your family."

"But I owe money to several people."

"We will pay your debts," they said.

So the gardener allowed himself to be persuaded, and went away with
the messengers, taking his wife and his son with him; and the King,
delighted to have found a real gardener, entrusted him with the care
of his garden. The man found no difficulty in making the royal garden
produce flowers and fruit, and at the end of a year the park was not
like the same place, and the King showered gifts upon his new servant.

The gardener, as you have heard already, had a son, who was a very
handsome young man, with most agreeable manners, and every day he
carried the best fruit of the garden to the King, and all the prettiest
flowers to his daughter. Now this princess was wonderfully pretty and
was just sixteen years old, and the King was beginning to think it was
time that she should be married.

"My dear child," said he, "you are of an age to take a husband,
therefore I am thinking of marrying you to the son of my prime minister.

"Father," replied the Princess, "I will never marry the son of the
minister."

"Why not?" asked the King.

"Because I love the gardener's son," answered the Princess.

On hearing this the King was at first very angry, and then he wept and
sighed, and declared that such a husband was not worthy of his daughter;
but the young Princess was not to be turned from her resolution to marry
the gardener's son.

Then the King consulted his ministers. "This is what you must do," they
said. "To get rid of the gardener you must send both suitors to a
very distant country, and the one who returns first shall marry your
daughter."

The King followed this advice, and the minister's son was presented with
a splendid horse and a purse full of gold pieces, while the gardener's
son had only an old lame horse and a purse full of copper money, and
every one thought he would never come back from his journey.

The day before they started the Princess met her lover and said to him:

"Be brave, and remember always that I love you. Take this purse full of
jewels and make the best use you can of them for love of me, and come
back quickly and demand my hand."

The two suitors left the town together, but the minister's son went off
at a gallop on his good horse, and very soon was lost to sight behind
the most distant hills. He traveled on for some days, and presently
reached a fountain beside which an old woman all in rags sat upon a
stone.

"Good-day to you, young traveler," said she.

But the minister's son made no reply.

"Have pity upon me, traveler," she said again. "I am dying of hunger,
as you see, and three days have I been here and no one has given me
anything."

"Let me alone, old witch," cried the young man; "I can do nothing for
you," and so saying he went on his way.

That same evening the gardener's son rode up to the fountain upon his
lame gray horse.

"Good-day to you, young traveler," said the beggar-woman.

"Good-day, good woman," answered he.

"Young traveler, have pity upon me."

"Take my purse, good woman," said he, "and mount behind me, for your
legs can't be very strong."

The old woman didn't wait to be asked twice, but mounted behind him,
and in this style they reached the chief city of a powerful kingdom. The
minister's son was lodged in a grand inn, the gardener's son and the old
woman dismounted at the inn for beggars.

The next day the gardener's son heard a great noise in the street, and
the King's heralds passed, blowing all kinds of instruments, and crying:

"The King, our master, is old and infirm. He will give a great reward to
whoever will cure him and give him back the strength of his youth."

Then the old beggar-woman said to her benefactor:

"This is what you must do to obtain the reward which the King promises.
Go out of the town by the south gate, and there you will find three
little dogs of different colors; the first will be white, the second
black, the third red. You must kill them and then burn them separately,
and gather up the ashes. Put the ashes of each dog into a bag of its own
color, then go before the door of the palace and cry out, 'A celebrated
physician has come from Janina in Albania. He alone can cure the King
and give him back the strength of his youth.' The King's physicians will
say, This is an impostor, and not a learned man,' and they will make all
sorts of difficulties, but you will overcome them all at last, and will
present yourself before the sick King. You must then demand as much wood
as three mules can carry, and a great cauldron, and must shut yourself
up in a room with the Sultan, and when the cauldron boils you must throw
him into it, and there leave him until his flesh is completely separated
from his bones. Then arrange the bones in their proper places, and throw
over them the ashes out of the three bags. The King will come back to
life, and will be just as he was when he was twenty years old. For your
reward you must demand the bronze ring which has the power to grant
you everything you desire. Go, my son, and do not forget any of my
instructions."

The young man followed the old beggar-woman's directions. On going out
of the town he found the white, red, and black dogs, and killed and
burnt them, gathering the ashes in three bags. Then he ran to the palace
and cried:

"A celebrated physician has just come from Janina in Albania. He alone
can cure the King and give him back the strength of his youth."

The King's physicians at first laughed at the unknown wayfarer, but the
Sultan ordered that the stranger should be admitted. They brought the
cauldron and the loads of wood, and very soon the King was boiling away.
Toward mid-day the gardener's son arranged the bones in their places,
and he had hardly scattered the ashes over them before the old King
revived, to find himself once more young and hearty.

"How can I reward you, my benefactor?" he cried. "Will you take half my
treasures?"

"No," said the gardener's son.

"My daughter's hand?"

"_No_."

"Take half my kingdom."

"No. Give me only the bronze ring which can instantly grant me anything
I wish for."

"Alas!" said the King, "I set great store by that marvelous ring;
nevertheless, you shall have it." And he gave it to him.

The gardener's son went back to say good-by to the old beggar-woman;
then he said to the bronze ring:

"Prepare a splendid ship in which I may continue my journey. Let the
hull be of fine gold, the masts of silver, the sails of brocade; let
the crew consist of twelve young men of noble appearance, dressed like
kings. St. Nicholas will be at the helm. As to the cargo, let it be
diamonds, rubies, emeralds, and carbuncles."

And immediately a ship appeared upon the sea which resembled in every
particular the description given by the gardener's son, and, stepping
on board, he continued his journey. Presently he arrived at a great town
and established himself in a wonderful palace. After several days he
met his rival, the minister's son, who had spent all his money and was
reduced to the disagreeable employment of a carrier of dust and rubbish.
The gardener's son said to him:

"What is your name, what is your family, and from what country do you
come?"

"I am the son of the prime minister of a great nation, and yet see what
a degrading occupation I am reduced to."

"Listen to me; though I don't know anything more about you, I am willing
to help you. I will give you a ship to take you back to your own country
upon one condition."

"Whatever it may be, I accept it willingly."

"Follow me to my palace."

The minister's son followed the rich stranger, whom he had not
recognized. When they reached the palace the gardener's son made a sign
to his slaves, who completely undressed the new-comer.

"Make this ring red-hot," commanded the master, "and mark the man with
it upon his back."

The slaves obeyed him.

"Now, young man," said the rich stranger, "I am going to give you a
vessel which will take you back to your own country."

And, going out, he took the bronze ring and said:

"Bronze ring, obey thy master. Prepare me a ship of which the
half-rotten timbers shall be painted black, let the sails be in rags,
and the sailors infirm and sickly. One shall have lost a leg, another
an arm, the third shall be a hunchback, another lame or club-footed or
blind, and most of them shall be ugly and covered with scars. Go, and
let my orders be executed."

The minister's son embarked in this old vessel, and thanks to favorable
winds, at length reached his own country. In spite of the pitiable
condition in which he returned they received him joyfully.

"I am the first to come back," said he to the King; now fulfil your
promise, and give me the princess in marriage.

So they at once began to prepare for the wedding festivities. As to the
poor princess, she was sorrowful and angry enough about it.

The next morning, at daybreak, a wonderful ship with every sail set came
to anchor before the town. The King happened at that moment to be at the
palace window.

"What strange ship is this," he cried, "that has a golden hull, silver
masts, and silken sails, and who are the young men like princes who man
it? And do I not see St. Nicholas at the helm? Go at once and invite the
captain of the ship to come to the palace."

His servants obeyed him, and very soon in came an enchantingly handsome
young prince, dressed in rich silk, ornamented with pearls and diamonds.

"Young man," said the King, "you are welcome, whoever you may be. Do me
the favor to be my guest as long as you remain in my capital."

"Many thanks, sire," replied the captain, "I accept your offer."

"My daughter is about to be married," said the King; "will you give her
away?"

"I shall be charmed, sire."

Soon after came the Princess and her betrothed.

"Why, how is this?" cried the young captain; "would you marry this
charming princess to such a man as that?"

"But he is my prime minister's son!"

"What does that matter? I cannot give your daughter away. The man she is
betrothed to is one of my servants."

"Your servant?"

"Without doubt. I met him in a distant town reduced to carrying away
dust and rubbish from the houses. I had pity on him and engaged him as
one of my servants."

"It is impossible!" cried the King.

"Do you wish me to prove what I say? This young man returned in a vessel
which I fitted out for him, an unseaworthy ship with a black battered
hull, and the sailors were infirm and crippled."

"It is quite true," said the King.

"It is false," cried the minister's son. "I do not know this man!"

"Sire," said the young captain, "order your daughter's betrothed to be
stripped, and see if the mark of my ring is not branded upon his back."

The King was about to give this order, when the minister's son, to save
himself from such an indignity, admitted that the story was true.

"And now, sire," said the young captain, "do you not recognize me?"

"I recognize you," said the Princess; "you are the gardener's son whom I
have always loved, and it is you I wish to marry."

"Young man, you shall be my son-in-law," cried the King. "The marriage
festivities are already begun, so you shall marry my daughter this very
day."

And so that very day the gardener's son married the beautiful Princess.

Several months passed. The young couple were as happy as the day was
long, and the King was more and more pleased with himself for having
secured such a son-in-law.

But, presently, the captain of the golden ship found it necessary to
take a long voyage, and after embracing his wife tenderly he embarked.

Now in the outskirts of the capital there lived an old man, who had
spent his life in studying black arts--alchemy, astrology, magic,
and enchantment. This man found out that the gardener's son had only
succeeded in marrying the Princess by the help of the genii who obeyed
the bronze ring.

"I will have that ring," said he to himself. So he went down to the
sea-shore and caught some little red fishes. Really, they were
quite wonderfully pretty. Then he came back, and, passing before the
Princess's window, he began to cry out:

"Who wants some pretty little red fishes?"

The Princess heard him, and sent out one of her slaves, who said to the
old peddler:

"What will you take for your fish?"

"A bronze ring."

"A bronze ring, old simpleton! And where shall I find one?"

"Under the cushion in the Princess's room."

The slave went back to her mistress.

"The old madman will take neither gold nor silver," said she.

"What does he want then?"

"A bronze ring that is hidden under a cushion."

"Find the ring and give it to him," said the Princess.

And at last the slave found the bronze ring, which the captain of the
golden ship had accidentally left behind and carried it to the man, who
made off with it instantly.

Hardly had he reached his own house when, taking the ring, he said,
"Bronze ring, obey thy master. I desire that the golden ship shall turn
to black wood, and the crew to hideous negroes; that St. Nicholas shall
leave the helm and that the only cargo shall be black cats."

And the genii of the bronze ring obeyed him.

Finding himself upon the sea in this miserable condition, the young
captain understood that some one must have stolen the bronze ring from
him, and he lamented his misfortune loudly; but that did him no good.

"Alas!" he said to himself, "whoever has taken my ring has probably
taken my dear wife also. What good will it do me to go back to my own
country?" And he sailed about from island to island, and from shore to
shore, believing that wherever he went everybody was laughing at him,
and very soon his poverty was so great that he and his crew and the poor
black cats had nothing to eat but herbs and roots. After wandering about
a long time he reached an island inhabited by mice. The captain landed
upon the shore and began to explore the country. There were mice
everywhere, and nothing but mice. Some of the black cats had followed
him, and, not having been fed for several days, they were fearfully
hungry, and made terrible havoc among the mice.

Then the queen of the mice held a council.

"These cats will eat every one of us," she said, "if the captain of the
ship does not shut the ferocious animals up. Let us send a deputation to
him of the bravest among us."

Several mice offered themselves for this mission and set out to find the
young captain.

"Captain," said they, "go away quickly from our island, or we shall
perish, every mouse of us."

"Willingly," replied the young captain, "upon one condition. That is
that you shall first bring me back a bronze ring which some clever
magician has stolen from me. If you do not do this I will land all my
cats upon your island, and you shall be exterminated."

The mice withdrew in great dismay. "What is to be done?" said the Queen.
"How can we find this bronze ring?" She held a new council, calling in
mice from every quarter of the globe, but nobody knew where the bronze
ring was. Suddenly three mice arrived from a very distant country. One
was blind, the second lame, and the third had her ears cropped.

"Ho, ho, ho!" said the new-comers. "We come from a far distant country."

"Do you know where the bronze ring is which the genii obey?"

"Ho, ho, ho! we know; an old sorcerer has taken possession of it, and
now he keeps it in his pocket by day and in his mouth by night."

"Go and take it from him, and come back as soon as possible."

So the three mice made themselves a boat and set sail for the magician's
country. When they reached the capital they landed and ran to the
palace, leaving only the blind mouse on the shore to take care of the
boat. Then they waited till it was night. The wicked old man lay down in
bed and put the bronze ring into his mouth, and very soon he was asleep.

"Now, what shall we do?" said the two little animals to each other.

The mouse with the cropped ears found a lamp full of oil and a bottle
full of pepper. So she dipped her tail first in the oil and then in the
pepper, and held it to the sorcerer's nose.

"Atisha! atisha!" sneezed the old man, but he did not wake, and the
shock made the bronze ring jump out of his mouth. Quick as thought the
lame mouse snatched up the precious talisman and carried it off to the
boat.

Imagine the despair of the magician when he awoke and the bronze ring
was nowhere to be found!

But by that time our three mice had set sail with their prize. A
favoring breeze was carrying them toward the island where the queen
of the mice was awaiting them. Naturally they began to talk about the
bronze ring.

"Which of us deserves the most credit?" they cried all at once.

"I do," said the blind mouse, "for without my watchfulness our boat
would have drifted away to the open sea."

"No, indeed," cried the mouse with the cropped ears; "the credit is
mine. Did I not cause the ring to jump out of the man's mouth?"

"No, it is mine," cried the lame one, "for I ran off with the ring."

And from high words they soon came to blows, and, alas! when the quarrel
was fiercest the bronze ring fell into the sea.

"How are we to face our queen," said the three mice "when by our
folly we have lost the talisman and condemned our people to be utterly
exterminated? We cannot go back to our country; let us land on this
desert island and there end our miserable lives." No sooner said than
done. The boat reached the island, and the mice landed.

The blind mouse was speedily deserted by her two sisters, who went off
to hunt flies, but as she wandered sadly along the shore she found a
dead fish, and was eating it, when she felt something very hard. At her
cries the other two mice ran up.

"It is the bronze ring! It is the talisman!" they cried joyfully, and,
getting into their boat again, they soon reached the mouse island. It
was time they did, for the captain was just going to land his cargo of
cats, when a deputation of mice brought him the precious bronze ring.

"Bronze ring," commanded the young man, "obey thy master. Let my ship
appear as it was before."

Immediately the genii of the ring set to work, and the old black vessel
became once more the wonderful golden ship with sails of brocade; the
handsome sailors ran to the silver masts and the silken ropes, and very
soon they set sail for the capital.

Ah! how merrily the sailors sang as they flew over the glassy sea!

At last the port was reached.

The captain landed and ran to the palace, where he found the wicked
old man asleep. The Princess clasped her husband in a long embrace. The
magician tried to escape, but he was seized and bound with strong cords.

The next day the sorcerer, tied to the tail of a savage mule loaded with
nuts, was broken into as many pieces as there were nuts upon the mule's
back.(1)


(1) Traditions Populaires de l'Asie Mineure. Carnoy et Nicolaides.
Paris: Maisonneuve, 1889.




PRINCE HYACINTH AND THE DEAR LITTLE PRINCESS


Once upon a time there lived a king who was deeply in love with a
princess, but she could not marry anyone, because she was under an
enchantment. So the King set out to seek a fairy, and asked what he
could do to win the Princess's love. The Fairy said to him:

"You know that the Princess has a great cat which she is very fond of.
Whoever is clever enough to tread on that cat's tail is the man she is
destined to marry."

The King said to himself that this would not be very difficult, and he
left the Fairy, determined to grind the cat's tail to powder rather than
not tread on it at all.

You may imagine that it was not long before he went to see the Princess,
and puss, as usual, marched in before him, arching his back. The King
took a long step, and quite thought he had the tail under his foot, but
the cat turned round so sharply that he only trod on air. And so it went
on for eight days, till the King began to think that this fatal tail
must be full of quicksilver--it was never still for a moment.

At last, however, he was lucky enough to come upon puss fast asleep and
with his tail conveniently spread out. So the King, without losing a
moment, set his foot upon it heavily.

With one terrific yell the cat sprang up and instantly changed into a
tall man, who, fixing his angry eyes upon the King, said:

"You shall marry the Princess because you have been able to break the
enchantment, but I will have my revenge. You shall have a son, who will
never be happy until he finds out that his nose is too long, and if you
ever tell anyone what I have just said to you, you shall vanish away
instantly, and no one shall ever see you or hear of you again."

Though the King was horribly afraid of the enchanter, he could not help
laughing at this threat.

"If my son has such a long nose as that," he said to himself, "he
must always see it or feel it; at least, if he is not blind or without
hands."

But, as the enchanter had vanished, he did not waste any more time in
thinking, but went to seek the Princess, who very soon consented to
marry him. But after all, they had not been married very long when the
King died, and the Queen had nothing left to care for but her little
son, who was called Hyacinth. The little Prince had large blue eyes, the
prettiest eyes in the world, and a sweet little mouth, but, alas!
his nose was so enormous that it covered half his face. The Queen was
inconsolable when she saw this great nose, but her ladies assured her
that it was not really as large as it looked; that it was a Roman nose,
and you had only to open any history to see that every hero has a large
nose. The Queen, who was devoted to her baby, was pleased with what they
told her, and when she looked at Hyacinth again, his nose certainly did
not seem to her _quite_ so large.

The Prince was brought up with great care; and, as soon as he could
speak, they told him all sorts of dreadful stories about people who had
short noses. No one was allowed to come near him whose nose did not more
or less resemble his own, and the courtiers, to get into favor with the
Queen, took to pulling their babies' noses several times every day
to make them grow long. But, do what they would, they were nothing by
comparison with the Prince's.

When he grew sensible he learned history; and whenever any great prince
or beautiful princess was spoken of, his teachers took care to tell him
that they had long noses.

His room was hung with pictures, all of people with very large noses;
and the Prince grew up so convinced that a long nose was a great beauty,
that he would not on any account have had his own a single inch shorter!

When his twentieth birthday was passed the Queen thought it was time
that he should be married, so she commanded that the portraits of
several princesses should be brought for him to see, and among the
others was a picture of the Dear Little Princess!

Now, she was the daughter of a great king, and would some day possess
several kingdoms herself; but Prince Hyacinth had not a thought to spare
for anything of that sort, he was so much struck with her beauty. The
Princess, whom he thought quite charming, had, however, a little saucy
nose, which, in her face, was the prettiest thing possible, but it was
a cause of great embarrassment to the courtiers, who had got into such
a habit of laughing at little noses that they sometimes found themselves
laughing at hers before they had time to think; but this did not do at
all before the Prince, who quite failed to see the joke, and actually
banished two of his courtiers who had dared to mention disrespectfully
the Dear Little Princess's tiny nose!

The others, taking warning from this, learned to think twice before they
spoke, and one even went so far as to tell the Prince that, though it
was quite true that no man could be worth anything unless he had a
long nose, still, a woman's beauty was a different thing; and he knew
a learned man who understood Greek and had read in some old manuscripts
that the beautiful Cleopatra herself had a "tip-tilted" nose!

The Prince made him a splendid present as a reward for this good
news, and at once sent ambassadors to ask the Dear Little Princess in
marriage. The King, her father, gave his consent; and Prince Hyacinth,
who, in his anxiety to see the Princess, had gone three leagues to meet
her was just advancing to kiss her hand when, to the horror of all who
stood by, the enchanter appeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning,
and, snatching up the Dear Little Princess, whirled her away out of
their sight!

The Prince was left quite unconsolable, and declared that nothing should
induce him to go back to his kingdom until he had found her again, and
refusing to allow any of his courtiers to follow him, he mounted his
horse and rode sadly away, letting the animal choose his own path.

So it happened that he came presently to a great plain, across which
he rode all day long without seeing a single house, and horse and rider
were terribly hungry, when, as the night fell, the Prince caught sight
of a light, which seemed to shine from a cavern.

He rode up to it, and saw a little old woman, who appeared to be at
least a hundred years old.

She put on her spectacles to look at Prince Hyacinth, but it was quite
a long time before she could fix them securely because her nose was so
very short.

The Prince and the Fairy (for that was who she was) had no sooner looked
at one another than they went into fits of laughter, and cried at the
same moment, "Oh, what a funny nose!"

"Not so funny as your own," said Prince Hyacinth to the Fairy; "but,
madam, I beg you to leave the consideration of our noses--such as
they are--and to be good enough to give me something to eat, for I am
starving, and so is my poor horse."

"With all my heart," said the Fairy. "Though your nose is so ridiculous
you are, nevertheless, the son of my best friend. I loved your father as
if he had been my brother. Now _he_ had a very handsome nose!"

"And pray what does mine lack?" said the Prince.

"Oh! it doesn't _lack_ anything," replied the Fairy. "On the contrary
quite, there is only too much of it. But never mind, one may be a very
worthy man though his nose is too long. I was telling you that I was
your father's friend; he often came to see me in the old times, and you
must know that I was very pretty in those days; at least, he used to say
so. I should like to tell you of a conversation we had the last time I
ever saw him."

"Indeed," said the Prince, "when I have supped it will give me the
greatest pleasure to hear it; but consider, madam, I beg of you, that I
have had nothing to eat to-day."

"The poor boy is right," said the Fairy; "I was forgetting. Come in,
then, and I will give you some supper, and while you are eating I can
tell you my story in a very few words--for I don't like endless tales
myself. Too long a tongue is worse than too long a nose, and I remember
when I was young that I was so much admired for not being a great
chatterer. They used to tell the Queen, my mother, that it was so. For
though you see what I am now, I was the daughter of a great king. My
father----"

"Your father, I dare say, got something to eat when he was hungry!"
interrupted the Prince.

"Oh! certainly," answered the Fairy, "and you also shall have supper
directly. I only just wanted to tell you----"

"But I really cannot listen to anything until I have had something
to eat," cried the Prince, who was getting quite angry; but then,
remembering that he had better be polite as he much needed the Fairy's
help, he added:

"I know that in the pleasure of listening to you I should quite forget
my own hunger; but my horse, who cannot hear you, must really be fed!"

The Fairy was very much flattered by this compliment, and said, calling
to her servants:

"You shall not wait another minute, you are so polite, and in spite of
the enormous size of your nose you are really very agreeable."

"Plague take the old lady! How she does go on about my nose!" said the
Prince to himself. "One would almost think that mine had taken all the
extra length that hers lacks! If I were not so hungry I would soon have
done with this chatterpie who thinks she talks very little! How stupid
people are not to see their own faults! That comes of being a princess:
she has been spoiled by flatterers, who have made her believe that she
is quite a moderate talker!"

Meanwhile the servants were putting the supper on the table, and the
prince was much amused to hear the Fairy who asked them a thousand
questions simply for the pleasure of hearing herself speak; especially
he noticed one maid who, no matter what was being said, always contrived
to praise her mistress's wisdom.

"Well!" he thought, as he ate his supper, "I'm very glad I came here.
This just shows me how sensible I have been in never listening to
flatterers. People of that sort praise us to our faces without shame,
and hide our faults or change them into virtues. For my part I never
will be taken in by them. I know my own defects, I hope."

Poor Prince Hyacinth! He really believed what he said, and hadn't an
idea that the people who had praised his nose were laughing at him, just
as the Fairy's maid was laughing at her; for the Prince had seen her
laugh slyly when she could do so without the Fairy's noticing her.

However, he said nothing, and presently, when his hunger began to be
appeased, the Fairy said:

"My dear Prince, might I beg you to move a little more that way, for
your nose casts such a shadow that I really cannot see what I have on my
plate. Ah! thanks. Now let us speak of your father. When I went to his
Court he was only a little boy, but that is forty years ago, and I have
been in this desolate place ever since. Tell me what goes on nowadays;
are the ladies as fond of amusement as ever? In my time one saw them at
parties, theatres, balls, and promenades every day. Dear me! _what_ a
long nose you have! I cannot get used to it!"

"Really, madam," said the Prince, "I wish you would leave off mentioning
my nose. It cannot matter to you what it is like. I am quite satisfied
with it, and have no wish to have it shorter. One must take what is
given one."

"Now you are angry with me, my poor Hyacinth," said the Fairy, "and I
assure you that I didn't mean to vex you; on the contrary, I wished to
do you a service. However, though I really cannot help your nose being a
shock to me, I will try not to say anything about it. I will even try to
think that you have an ordinary nose. To tell the truth, it would make
three reasonable ones."

The Prince, who was no longer hungry, grew so impatient at the Fairy's
continual remarks about his nose that at last he threw himself upon his
horse and rode hastily away. But wherever he came in his journeyings he
thought the people were mad, for they all talked of his nose, and yet
he could not bring himself to admit that it was too long, he had been so
used all his life to hear it called handsome.

The old Fairy, who wished to make him happy, at last hit upon a plan.
She shut the Dear Little Princess up in a palace of crystal, and put
this palace down where the Prince would not fail to find it. His joy at
seeing the Princess again was extreme, and he set to work with all his
might to try to break her prison; but in spite of all his efforts he
failed utterly. In despair he thought at least that he would try to
get near enough to speak to the Dear Little Princess, who, on her part,
stretched out her hand that he might kiss it; but turn which way he
might, he never could raise it to his lips, for his long nose always
prevented it. For the first time he realized how long it really was, and
exclaimed:

"Well, it must be admitted that my nose _is_ too long!"

In an instant the crystal prison flew into a thousand splinters, and
the old Fairy, taking the Dear Little Princess by the hand, said to the
Prince:

"Now, say if you are not very much obliged to me. Much good it was for
me to talk to you about your nose! You would never have found out how
extraordinary it was if it hadn't hindered you from doing what you
wanted to. You see how self-love keeps us from knowing our own defects
of mind and body. Our reason tries in vain to show them to us; we refuse
to see them till we find them in the way of our interests."

Prince Hyacinth, whose nose was now just like anyone's else, did not
fail to profit by the lesson he had received. He married the Dear Little
Princess, and they lived happily ever after.(1)


(1) Le Prince Desir et la Princesse Mignonne. Par Madame Leprince de
Beaumont.




EAST OF THE SUN AND WEST OF THE MOON


Once upon a time there was a poor husbandman who had many children and
little to give them in the way either of food or clothing. They were all
pretty, but the prettiest of all was the youngest daughter, who was so
beautiful that there were no bounds to her beauty.

So once--it was late on a Thursday evening in autumn, and wild weather
outside, terribly dark, and raining so heavily and blowing so hard that
the walls of the cottage shook again--they were all sitting together by
the fireside, each of them busy with something or other, when suddenly
some one rapped three times against the window-pane. The man went out
to see what could be the matter, and when he got out there stood a great
big white bear.

"Good-evening to you," said the White Bear.

"Good-evening," said the man.

"Will you give me your youngest daughter?" said the White Bear; "if you
will, you shall be as rich as you are now poor."

Truly the man would have had no objection to be rich, but he thought to
himself: "I must first ask my daughter about this," so he went in and
told them that there was a great white bear outside who had faithfully
promised to make them all rich if he might but have the youngest
daughter.

She said no, and would not hear of it; so the man went out again, and
settled with the White Bear that he should come again next Thursday
evening, and get her answer. Then the man persuaded her, and talked so
much to her about the wealth that they would have, and what a good thing
it would be for herself, that at last she made up her mind to go, and
washed and mended all her rags, made herself as smart as she could, and
held herself in readiness to set out. Little enough had she to take away
with her.

Next Thursday evening the White Bear came to fetch her. She seated
herself on his back with her bundle, and thus they departed. When they
had gone a great part of the way, the White Bear said: "Are you afraid?"

"No, that I am not," said she.

"Keep tight hold of my fur, and then there is no danger," said he.

And thus she rode far, far away, until they came to a great mountain.
Then the White Bear knocked on it, and a door opened, and they went into
a castle where there were many brilliantly lighted rooms which shone
with gold and silver, likewise a large hall in which there was a
well-spread table, and it was so magnificent that it would be hard to
make anyone understand how splendid it was. The White Bear gave her a
silver bell, and told her that when she needed anything she had but
to ring this bell, and what she wanted would appear. So after she had
eaten, and night was drawing near, she grew sleepy after her journey,
and thought she would like to go to bed. She rang the bell, and scarcely
had she touched it before she found herself in a chamber where a bed
stood ready made for her, which was as pretty as anyone could wish to
sleep in. It had pillows of silk, and curtains of silk fringed with
gold, and everything that was in the room was of gold or silver, but
when she had lain down and put out the light a man came and lay down
beside her, and behold it was the White Bear, who cast off the form of
a beast during the night. She never saw him, however, for he always came
after she had put out her light, and went away before daylight appeared.

So all went well and happily for a time, but then she began to be very
sad and sorrowful, for all day long she had to go about alone; and
she did so wish to go home to her father and mother and brothers and
sisters. Then the White Bear asked what it was that she wanted, and she
told him that it was so dull there in the mountain, and that she had to
go about all alone, and that in her parents' house at home there were
all her brothers and sisters, and it was because she could not go to
them that she was so sorrowful.

"There might be a cure for that," said the White Bear, "if you would
but promise me never to talk with your mother alone, but only when the
others are there too; for she will take hold of your hand," he said,
"and will want to lead you into a room to talk with you alone; but that
you must by no means do, or you will bring great misery on both of us."

So one Sunday the White Bear came and said that they could now set out
to see her father and mother, and they journeyed thither, she sitting on
his back, and they went a long, long way, and it took a long, long time;
but at last they came to a large white farmhouse, and her brothers and
sisters were running about outside it, playing, and it was so pretty
that it was a pleasure to look at it.

"Your parents dwell here now," said the White Bear; "but do not forget
what I said to you, or you will do much harm both to yourself and me."

"No, indeed," said she, "I shall never forget;" and as soon as she was
at home the White Bear turned round and went back again.

There were such rejoicings when she went in to her parents that it
seemed as if they would never come to an end. Everyone thought that he
could never be sufficiently grateful to her for all she had done for
them all. Now they had everything that they wanted, and everything was
as good as it could be. They all asked her how she was getting on where
she was. All was well with her too, she said; and she had everything
that she could want. What other answers she gave I cannot say, but I am
pretty sure that they did not learn much from her. But in the afternoon,
after they had dined at midday, all happened just as the White Bear had
said. Her mother wanted to talk with her alone in her own chamber. But
she remembered what the White Bear had said, and would on no account go.
"What we have to say can be said at any time," she answered. But somehow
or other her mother at last persuaded her, and she was forced to tell
the whole story. So she told how every night a man came and lay down
beside her when the lights were all put out, and how she never saw him,
because he always went away before it grew light in the morning, and how
she continually went about in sadness, thinking how happy she would
be if she could but see him, and how all day long she had to go about
alone, and it was so dull and solitary. "Oh!" cried the mother, in
horror, "you are very likely sleeping with a troll! But I will teach you
a way to see him. You shall have a bit of one of my candles, which you
can take away with you hidden in your breast. Look at him with that when
he is asleep, but take care not to let any tallow drop upon him."

So she took the candle, and hid it in her breast, and when evening drew
near the White Bear came to fetch her away. When they had gone some
distance on their way, the White Bear asked her if everything had not
happened just as he had foretold, and she could not but own that it had.
"Then, if you have done what your mother wished," said he, "you have
brought great misery on both of us." "No," she said, "I have not done
anything at all." So when she had reached home and had gone to bed it
was just the same as it had been before, and a man came and lay down
beside her, and late at night, when she could hear that he was sleeping,
she got up and kindled a light, lit her candle, let her light shine on
him, and saw him, and he was the handsomest prince that eyes had ever
beheld, and she loved him so much that it seemed to her that she must
die if she did not kiss him that very moment. So she did kiss him; but
while she was doing it she let three drops of hot tallow fall upon
his shirt, and he awoke. "What have you done now?" said he; "you have
brought misery on both of us. If you had but held out for the space of
one year I should have been free. I have a step-mother who has bewitched
me so that I am a white bear by day and a man by night; but now all is
at an end between you and me, and I must leave you, and go to her. She
lives in a castle which lies east of the sun and west of the moon, and
there too is a princess with a nose which is three ells long, and she
now is the one whom I must marry."

She wept and lamented, but all in vain, for go he must. Then she asked
him if she could not go with him. But no, that could not be. "Can you
tell me the way then, and I will seek you--that I may surely be allowed
to do!"

"Yes, you may do that," said he; "but there is no way thither. It lies
east of the sun and west of the moon, and never would you find your way
there."

When she awoke in the morning both the Prince and the castle were gone,
and she was lying on a small green patch in the midst of a dark, thick
wood. By her side lay the self-same bundle of rags which she had brought
with her from her own home. So when she had rubbed the sleep out of her
eyes, and wept till she was weary, she set out on her way, and thus she
walked for many and many a long day, until at last she came to a great
mountain. Outside it an aged woman was sitting, playing with a golden
apple. The girl asked her if she knew the way to the Prince who lived
with his stepmother in the castle which lay east of the sun and west of
the moon, and who was to marry a princess with a nose which was three
ells long. "How do you happen to know about him?" inquired the old
woman; "maybe you are she who ought to have had him." "Yes, indeed, I
am," she said. "So it is you, then?" said the old woman; "I know nothing
about him but that he dwells in a castle which is east of the sun and
west of the moon. You will be a long time in getting to it, if ever you
get to it at all; but you shall have the loan of my horse, and then you
can ride on it to an old woman who is a neighbor of mine: perhaps she
can tell you about him. When you have got there you must just strike the
horse beneath the left ear and bid it go home again; but you may take
the golden apple with you."

So the girl seated herself on the horse, and rode for a long, long way,
and at last she came to the mountain, where an aged woman was sitting
outside with a gold carding-comb. The girl asked her if she knew the way
to the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon; but she
said what the first old woman had said: "I know nothing about it, but
that it is east of the sun and west of the moon, and that you will be a
long time in getting to it, if ever you get there at all; but you shall
have the loan of my horse to an old woman who lives the nearest to me:
perhaps she may know where the castle is, and when you have got to her
you may just strike the horse beneath the left ear and bid it go home
again." Then she gave her the gold carding-comb, for it might, perhaps,
be of use to her, she said.

So the girl seated herself on the horse, and rode a wearisome long way
onward again, and after a very long time she came to a great mountain,
where an aged woman was sitting, spinning at a golden spinning-wheel.
Of this woman, too, she inquired if she knew the way to the Prince, and
where to find the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon.
But it was only the same thing once again. "Maybe it was you who should
have had the Prince," said the old woman. "Yes, indeed, I should have
been the one," said the girl. But this old crone knew the way no better
than the others--it was east of the sun and west of the moon, she knew
that, "and you will be a long time in getting to it, if ever you get
to it at all," she said; "but you may have the loan of my horse, and I
think you had better ride to the East Wind, and ask him: perhaps he may
know where the castle is, and will blow you thither. But when you have
got to him you must just strike the horse beneath the left ear, and he
will come home again." And then she gave her the golden spinning-wheel,
saying: "Perhaps you may find that you have a use for it."

The girl had to ride for a great many days, and for a long and wearisome
time, before she got there; but at last she did arrive, and then she
asked the East Wind if he could tell her the way to the Prince who dwelt
east of the sun and west of the moon. "Well," said the East Wind, "I
have heard tell of the Prince, and of his castle, but I do not know the
way to it, for I have never blown so far; but, if you like, I will go
with you to my brother the West Wind: he may know that, for he is much
stronger than I am. You may sit on my back, and then I can carry you
there." So she seated herself on his back, and they did go so swiftly!
When they got there, the East Wind went in and said that the girl whom
he had brought was the one who ought to have had the Prince up at the
castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon, and that now she
was traveling about to find him again, so he had come there with her,
and would like to hear if the West Wind knew whereabout the castle was.
"No," said the West Wind; "so far as that have I never blown; but if you
like I will go with you to the South Wind, for he is much stronger than
either of us, and he has roamed far and wide, and perhaps he can tell
you what you want to know. You may seat yourself on my back, and then I
will carry you to him.".

So she did this, and journeyed to the South Wind, neither was she very
long on the way. When they had got there, the West Wind asked him if he
could tell her the way to the castle that lay east of the sun and west
of the moon, for she was the girl who ought to marry the Prince who
lived there. "Oh, indeed!" said the South Wind, "is that she? Well,"
said he, "I have wandered about a great deal in my time, and in all
kinds of places, but I have never blown so far as that. If you like,
however, I will go with you to my brother, the North Wind; he is the
oldest and strongest of all of us, and if he does not know where it is
no one in the whole world will be able to tell you. You may sit upon
my back, and then I will carry you there." So she seated herself on his
back, and off he went from his house in great haste, and they were not
long on the way. When they came near the North Wind's dwelling, he was
so wild and frantic that they felt cold gusts a long while before they
got there. "What do you want?" he roared out from afar, and they froze
as they heard. Said the South Wind: "It is I, and this is she who should
have had the Prince who lives in the castle which lies east of the sun
and west of the moon. And now she wishes to ask you if you have ever
been there, and can tell her the way, for she would gladly find him
again."

"Yes," said the North Wind, "I know where it is. I once blew an aspen
leaf there, but I was so tired that for many days afterward I was not
able to blow at all. However, if you really are anxious to go there, and
are not afraid to go with me, I will take you on my back, and try if I
can blow you there."

"Get there I must," said she; "and if there is any way of going I will;
and I have no fear, no matter how fast you go."

"Very well then," said the North Wind; "but you must sleep here
to-night, for if we are ever to get there we must have the day before
us."

The North Wind woke her betimes next morning, and puffed himself up, and
made himself so big and so strong that it was frightful to see him, and
away they went, high up through the air, as if they would not stop until
they had reached the very end of the world. Down below there was such a
storm! It blew down woods and houses, and when they were above the sea
the ships were wrecked by hundreds. And thus they tore on and on, and
a long time went by, and then yet more time passed, and still they were
above the sea, and the North Wind grew tired, and more tired, and at
last so utterly weary that he was scarcely able to blow any longer, and
he sank and sank, lower and lower, until at last he went so low that the
waves dashed against the heels of the poor girl he was carrying. "Art
thou afraid?" said the North Wind. "I have no fear," said she; and it
was true. But they were not very, very far from land, and there was just
enough strength left in the North Wind to enable him to throw her on to
the shore, immediately under the windows of a castle which lay east of
the sun and west of the moon; but then he was so weary and worn out that
he was forced to rest for several days before he could go to his own
home again.

Next morning she sat down beneath the walls of the castle to play with
the golden apple, and the first person she saw was the maiden with the
long nose, who was to have the Prince. "How much do you want for that
gold apple of yours, girl?" said she, opening the window. "It can't be
bought either for gold or money," answered the girl. "If it cannot be
bought either for gold or money, what will buy it? You may say what you
please," said the Princess.

"Well, if I may go to the Prince who is here, and be with him to-night,
you shall have it," said the girl who had come with the North Wind. "You
may do that," said the Princess, for she had made up her mind what she
would do. So the Princess got the golden apple, but when the girl went
up to the Prince's apartment that night he was asleep, for the Princess
had so contrived it. The poor girl called to him, and shook him, and
between whiles she wept; but she could not wake him. In the morning, as
soon as day dawned, in came the Princess with the long nose, and drove
her out again. In the daytime she sat down once more beneath the windows
of the castle, and began to card with her golden carding-comb; and then
all happened as it had happened before. The Princess asked her what she
wanted for it, and she replied that it was not for sale, either for gold
or money, but that if she could get leave to go to the Prince, and be
with him during the night, she should have it. But when she went up to
the Prince's room he was again asleep, and, let her call him, or shake
him, or weep as she would, he still slept on, and she could not put any
life in him. When daylight came in the morning, the Princess with the
long nose came too, and once more drove her away. When day had quite
come, the girl seated herself under the castle windows, to spin with
her golden spinning-wheel, and the Princess with the long nose wanted to
have that also. So she opened the window, and asked what she would
take for it. The girl said what she had said on each of the former
occasions--that it was not for sale either for gold or for money, but if
she could get leave to go to the Prince who lived there, and be with him
during the night, she should have it.

"Yes," said the Princess, "I will gladly consent to that."

But in that place there were some Christian folk who had been carried
off, and they had been sitting in the chamber which was next to that of
the Prince, and had heard how a woman had been in there who had wept and
called on him two nights running, and they told the Prince of this. So
that evening, when the Princess came once more with her sleeping-drink,
he pretended to drink, but threw it away behind him, for he suspected
that it was a sleeping-drink. So, when the girl went into the Prince's
room this time he was awake, and she had to tell him how she had come
there. "You have come just in time," said the Prince, "for I should have
been married to-morrow; but I will not have the long-nosed Princess, and
you alone can save me. I will say that I want to see what my bride can
do, and bid her wash the shirt which has the three drops of tallow on
it. This she will consent to do, for she does not know that it is you
who let them fall on it; but no one can wash them out but one born of
Christian folk: it cannot be done by one of a pack of trolls; and then
I will say that no one shall ever be my bride but the woman who can do
this, and I know that you can." There was great joy and gladness between
them all that night, but the next day, when the wedding was to take
place, the Prince said, "I must see what my bride can do." "That you may
do," said the stepmother.

"I have a fine shirt which I want to wear as my wedding shirt, but three
drops of tallow have got upon it which I want to have washed off, and
I have vowed to marry no one but the woman who is able to do it. If she
cannot do that, she is not worth having."

Well, that was a very small matter, they thought, and agreed to do it.
The Princess with the long nose began to wash as well as she could,
but, the more she washed and rubbed, the larger the spots grew. "Ah! you
can't wash at all," said the old troll-hag, who was her mother. "Give it
to me." But she too had not had the shirt very long in her hands before
it looked worse still, and, the more she washed it and rubbed it, the
larger and blacker grew the spots.

So the other trolls had to come and wash, but, the more they did, the
blacker and uglier grew the shirt, until at length it was as black as if
it had been up the chimney. "Oh," cried the Prince, "not one of you is
good for anything at all! There is a beggar-girl sitting outside the
window, and I'll be bound that she can wash better than any of you! Come
in, you girl there!" he cried. So she came in. "Can you wash this shirt
clean?" he cried. "Oh! I don't know," she said; "but I will try." And
no sooner had she taken the shirt and dipped it in the water than it
was white as driven snow, and even whiter than that. "I will marry you,"
said the Prince.

Then the old troll-hag flew into such a rage that she burst, and the
Princess with the long nose and all the little trolls must have burst
too, for they have never been heard of since. The Prince and his bride
set free all the Christian folk who were imprisoned there, and took away
with them all the gold and silver that they could carry, and moved far
away from the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon.(1)


(1) Asbjornsen and Moe.




THE YELLOW DWARF


Once upon a time there lived a queen who had been the mother of a great
many children, and of them all only one daughter was left. But then
_she_ was worth at least a thousand.

Her mother, who, since the death of the King, her father, had nothing in
the world she cared for so much as this little Princess, was so terribly
afraid of losing her that she quite spoiled her, and never tried to
correct any of her faults. The consequence was that this little person,
who was as pretty as possible, and was one day to wear a crown, grew
up so proud and so much in love with her own beauty that she despised
everyone else in the world.

The Queen, her mother, by her caresses and flatteries, helped to make
her believe that there was nothing too good for her. She was dressed
almost always in the prettiest frocks, as a fairy, or as a queen going
out to hunt, and the ladies of the Court followed her dressed as forest
fairies.

And to make her more vain than ever the Queen caused her portrait to be
taken by the cleverest painters and sent it to several neighboring kings
with whom she was very friendly.

When they saw this portrait they fell in love with the Princess--every
one of them, but upon each it had a different effect. One fell ill, one
went quite crazy, and a few of the luckiest set off to see her as soon
as possible, but these poor princes became her slaves the moment they
set eyes on her.

Never has there been a gayer Court. Twenty delightful kings did
everything they could think of to make themselves agreeable, and after
having spent ever so much money in giving a single entertainment thought
themselves very lucky if the Princess said "That's pretty."

All this admiration vastly pleased the Queen. Not a day passed but
she received seven or eight thousand sonnets, and as many elegies,
madrigals, and songs, which were sent her by all the poets in the
world. All the prose and the poetry that was written just then was about
Bellissima--for that was the Princess's name--and all the bonfires that
they had were made of these verses, which crackled and sparkled better
than any other sort of wood.

Bellissima was already fifteen years old, and every one of the Princes
wished to marry her, but not one dared to say so. How could they when
they knew that any of them might have cut off his head five or six times
a day just to please her, and she would have thought it a mere trifle,
so little did she care? You may imagine how hard-hearted her lovers
thought her; and the Queen, who wished to see her married, did not know
how to persuade her to think of it seriously.

"Bellissima," she said, "I do wish you would not be so proud. What makes
you despise all these nice kings? I wish you to marry one of them, and
you do not try to please me."

"I am so happy," Bellissima answered: "do leave me in peace, madam. I
don't want to care for anyone."

"But you would be very happy with any of these Princes," said the Queen,
"and I shall be very angry if you fall in love with anyone who is not
worthy of you."

But the Princess thought so much of herself that she did not consider
any one of her lovers clever or handsome enough for her; and her mother,
who was getting really angry at her determination not to be married,
began to wish that she had not allowed her to have her own way so much.

At last, not knowing what else to do, she resolved to consult a certain
witch who was called "The Fairy of the Desert." Now this was very
difficult to do, as she was guarded by some terrible lions; but happily
the Queen had heard a long time before that whoever wanted to pass
these lions safely must throw to them a cake made of millet flour,
sugar-candy, and crocodile's eggs. This cake she prepared with her own
hands, and putting it in a little basket, she set out to seek the Fairy.
But as she was not used to walking far, she soon felt very tired and sat
down at the foot of a tree to rest, and presently fell fast asleep. When
she awoke she was dismayed to find her basket empty. The cake was all
gone! and, to make matters worse, at that moment she heard the roaring
of the great lions, who had found out that she was near and were coming
to look for her.

"What shall I do?" she cried; "I shall be eaten up," and being too
frightened to run a single step, she began to cry, and leaned against
the tree under which she had been asleep.

Just then she heard some one say: "H'm, h'm!"

She looked all round her, and then up the tree, and there she saw a
little tiny man, who was eating oranges.

"Oh! Queen," said he, "I know you very well, and I know how much afraid
you are of the lions; and you are quite right too, for they have eaten
many other people: and what can you expect, as you have not any cake to
give them?"

"I must make up my mind to die," said the poor Queen. "Alas! I should
not care so much if only my dear daughter were married."

"Oh! you have a daughter," cried the Yellow Dwarf (who was so called
because he _was_ a dwarf and had such a yellow face, and lived in the
orange tree). "I'm really glad to hear that, for I've been looking for
a wife all over the world. Now, if you will promise that she shall marry
me, not one of the lions, tigers, or bears shall touch you."

The Queen looked at him and was almost as much afraid of his ugly little
face as she had been of the lions before, so that she could not speak a
word.

"What! you hesitate, madam," cried the Dwarf. "You must be very fond of
being eaten up alive."

And, as he spoke, the Queen saw the lions, which were running down a
hill toward them.

Each one had two heads, eight feet, and four rows of teeth, and their
skins were as hard as turtle shells, and were bright red.

At this dreadful sight, the poor Queen, who was trembling like a dove
when it sees a hawk, cried out as loud as she could, "Oh! dear Mr.
Dwarf, Bellissima shall marry you."

"Oh, indeed!" said he disdainfully. "Bellissima is pretty enough, but I
don't particularly want to marry her--you can keep her."

"Oh! noble sir," said the Queen in great distress, "do not refuse her.
She is the most charming Princess in the world."

"Oh! well," he replied, "out of charity I will take her; but be sure and
don't forget that she is mine."

As he spoke a little door opened in the trunk of the orange tree, in
rushed the Queen, only just in time, and the door shut with a bang in
the faces of the lions.

The Queen was so confused that at first she did not notice another
little door in the orange tree, but presently it opened and she found
herself in a field of thistles and nettles. It was encircled by a muddy
ditch, and a little further on was a tiny thatched cottage, out of which
came the Yellow Dwarf with a very jaunty air. He wore wooden shoes and
a little yellow coat, and as he had no hair and very long ears he looked
altogether a shocking little object.

"I am delighted," said he to the Queen, "that, as you are to be my
mother-in-law, you should see the little house in which your Bellissima
will live with me. With these thistles and nettles she can feed a donkey
which she can ride whenever she likes; under this humble roof no
weather can hurt her; she will drink the water of this brook and eat
frogs--which grow very fat about here; and then she will have me always
with her, handsome, agreeable, and gay as you see me now. For if her
shadow stays by her more closely than I do I shall be surprised."

The unhappy Queen, seeing all at once what a miserable life her daughter
would have with this Dwarf could not bear the idea, and fell down
insensible without saying a word.

When she revived she found to her great surprise that she was lying in
her own bed at home, and, what was more, that she had on the loveliest
lace night cap that she had ever seen in her life. At first she thought
that all her adventures, the terrible lions, and her promise to the
Yellow Dwarf that he should marry Bellissima, must have been a dream,
but there was the new cap with its beautiful ribbon and lace to remind
her that it was all true, which made her so unhappy that she could
neither eat, drink, nor sleep for thinking of it.

The Princess, who, in spite of her wilfulness, really loved her mother
with all her heart, was much grieved when she saw her looking so sad,
and often asked her what was the matter; but the Queen, who didn't want
her to find out the truth, only said that she was ill, or that one of
her neighbors was threatening to make war against her. Bellissima knew
quite well that something was being hidden from her--and that neither of
these was the real reason of the Queen's uneasiness. So she made up her
mind that she would go and consult the Fairy of the Desert about it,
especially as she had often heard how wise she was, and she thought that
at the same time she might ask her advice as to whether it would be as
well to be married, or not.

So, with great care, she made some of the proper cake to pacify the
lions, and one night went up to her room very early, pretending that
she was going to bed; but instead of that, she wrapped herself in a long
white veil, and went down a secret staircase, and set off all by herself
to find the Witch.

But when she got as far as the same fatal orange tree, and saw it
covered with flowers and fruit, she stopped and began to gather some
of the oranges--and then, putting down her basket, she sat down to eat
them. But when it was time to go on again the basket had disappeared
and, though she looked everywhere, not a trace of it could she find.
The more she hunted for it, the more frightened she got, and at last she
began to cry. Then all at once she saw before her the Yellow Dwarf.

"What's the matter with you, my pretty one?" said he. "What are you
crying about?"

"Alas!" she answered; "no wonder that I am crying, seeing that I have
lost the basket of cake that was to help me to get safely to the cave of
the Fairy of the Desert."

"And what do you want with her, pretty one?" said the little monster,
"for I am a friend of hers, and, for the matter of that, I am quite as
clever as she is."

"The Queen, my mother," replied the Princess, "has lately fallen into
such deep sadness that I fear that she will die; and I am afraid that
perhaps I am the cause of it, for she very much wishes me to be married,
and I must tell you truly that as yet I have not found anyone I consider
worthy to be my husband. So for all these reasons I wished to talk to
the Fairy."

"Do not give yourself any further trouble, Princess," answered the
Dwarf. "I can tell you all you want to know better than she could. The
Queen, your mother, has promised you in marriage----"

"Has promised _me!_" interrupted the Princess. "Oh! no. I'm sure she has
not. She would have told me if she had. I am too much interested in
the matter for her to promise anything without my consent--you must be
mistaken."

"Beautiful Princess," cried the Dwarf suddenly, throwing himself on his
knees before her, "I flatter myself that you will not be displeased
at her choice when I tell you that it is to _me_ she has promised the
happiness of marrying you."

"You!" cried Bellissima, starting back. "My mother wishes me to marry
you! How can you be so silly as to think of such a thing?"

"Oh! it isn't that I care much to have that honor," cried the Dwarf
angrily; "but here are the lions coming; they'll eat you up in three
mouthfuls, and there will be an end of you and your pride."

And, indeed, at that moment the poor Princess heard their dreadful howls
coming nearer and nearer.

"What shall I do?" she cried. "Must all my happy days come to an end
like this?"

The malicious Dwarf looked at her and began to laugh spitefully. "At
least," said he, "you have the satisfaction of dying unmarried. A lovely
Princess like you must surely prefer to die rather than be the wife of a
poor little dwarf like myself."

"Oh, don't be angry with me," cried the Princess, clasping her hands.
"I'd rather marry all the dwarfs in the world than die in this horrible
way."

"Look at me well, Princess, before you give me your word," said he. "I
don't want you to promise me in a hurry."

"Oh!" cried she, "the lions are coming. I have looked at you enough. I
am so frightened. Save me this minute, or I shall die of terror."

Indeed, as she spoke she fell down insensible, and when she recovered
she found herself in her own little bed at home; how she got there
she could not tell, but she was dressed in the most beautiful lace and
ribbons, and on her finger was a little ring, made of a single red hair,
which fitted so tightly that, try as she might, she could not get it
off.

When the Princess saw all these things, and remembered what had
happened, she, too, fell into the deepest sadness, which surprised and
alarmed the whole Court, and the Queen more than anyone else. A hundred
times she asked Bellissima if anything was the matter with her; but she
always said that there was nothing.

At last the chief men of the kingdom, anxious to see their Princess
married, sent to the Queen to beg her to choose a husband for her as
soon as possible. She replied that nothing would please her better, but
that her daughter seemed so unwilling to marry, and she recommended them
to go and talk to the Princess about it themselves so this they at once
did. Now Bellissima was much less proud since her adventure with the
Yellow Dwarf, and she could not think of a better way of getting rid
of the little monster than to marry some powerful king, therefore she
replied to their request much more favorably than they had hoped, saying
that, though she was very happy as she was, still, to please them, she
would consent to marry the King of the Gold Mines. Now he was a very
handsome and powerful Prince, who had been in love with the Princess for
years, but had not thought that she would ever care about him at all.
You can easily imagine how delighted he was when he heard the news,
and how angry it made all the other kings to lose for ever the hope of
marrying the Princess; but, after all, Bellissima could not have married
twenty kings--indeed, she had found it quite difficult enough to choose
one, for her vanity made her believe that there was nobody in the world
who was worthy of her.

Preparations were begun at once for the grandest wedding that had ever
been held at the palace. The King of the Gold Mines sent such immense
sums of money that the whole sea was covered with the ships that brought
it. Messengers were sent to all the gayest and most refined Courts,
particularly to the Court of France, to seek out everything rare and
precious to adorn the Princess, although her beauty was so perfect that
nothing she wore could make her look prettier. At least that is what
the King of the Gold Mines thought, and he was never happy unless he was
with her.

As for the Princess, the more she saw of the King the more she liked
him; he was so generous, so handsome and clever, that at last she was
almost as much in love with him as he was with her. How happy they were
as they wandered about in the beautiful gardens together, sometimes
listening to sweet music! And the King used to write songs for
Bellissima. This is one that she liked very much:

  In the forest all is gay
  When my Princess walks that way.
  All the blossoms then are found
  Downward fluttering to the ground,
  Hoping she may tread on them.
  And bright flowers on slender stem
  Gaze up at her as she passes
  Brushing lightly through the grasses.
  Oh! my Princess, birds above
  Echo back our songs of love,
  As through this enchanted land
  Blithe we wander, hand in hand.


They really were as happy as the day was long. All the King's
unsuccessful rivals had gone home in despair. They said good-by to the
Princess so sadly that she could not help being sorry for them.

"Ah! madam," the King of the Gold Mines said to her "how is this? Why
do you waste your pity on these princes, who love you so much that all
their trouble would be well repaid by a single smile from you?"

"I should be sorry," answered Bellissima, "if you had not noticed how
much I pitied these princes who were leaving me for ever; but for you,
sire, it is very different: you have every reason to be pleased with
me, but they are going sorrowfully away, so you must not grudge them my
compassion."

The King of the Gold Mines was quite overcome by the Princess's
good-natured way of taking his interference, and, throwing himself at
her feet, he kissed her hand a thousand times and begged her to forgive
him.

At last the happy day came. Everything was ready for Bellissima's
wedding. The trumpets sounded, all the streets of the town were hung
with flags and strewn with flowers, and the people ran in crowds to the
great square before the palace. The Queen was so overjoyed that she had
hardly been able to sleep at all, and she got up before it was light to
give the necessary orders and to choose the jewels that the Princess was
to wear. These were nothing less than diamonds, even to her shoes, which
were covered with them, and her dress of silver brocade was embroidered
with a dozen of the sun's rays. You may imagine how much these had cost;
but then nothing could have been more brilliant, except the beauty of
the Princess! Upon her head she wore a splendid crown, her lovely
hair waved nearly to her feet, and her stately figure could easily be
distinguished among all the ladies who attended her.

The King of the Gold Mines was not less noble and splendid; it was easy
to see by his face how happy he was, and everyone who went near him
returned loaded with presents, for all round the great banqueting hall
had been arranged a thousand barrels full of gold, and numberless bags
made of velvet embroidered with pearls and filled with money, each one
containing at least a hundred thousand gold pieces, which were given
away to everyone who liked to hold out his hand, which numbers of people
hastened to do, you may be sure--indeed, some found this by far the most
amusing part of the wedding festivities.

The Queen and the Princess were just ready to set out with the King when
they saw, advancing toward them from the end of the long gallery, two
great basilisks, dragging after them a very badly made box; behind them
came a tall old woman, whose ugliness was even more surprising than her
extreme old age. She wore a ruff of black taffeta, a red velvet hood,
and a farthingale all in rags, and she leaned heavily upon a crutch.
This strange old woman, without saying a single word, hobbled three
times round the gallery, followed by the basilisks, then stopping in the
middle, and brandishing her crutch threateningly, she cried:

"Ho, ho, Queen! Ho, ho, Princess! Do you think you are going to break
with impunity the promise that you made to my friend the Yellow Dwarf? I
am the Fairy of the Desert; without the Yellow Dwarf and his orange
tree my great lions would soon have eaten you up, I can tell you, and in
Fairyland we do not suffer ourselves to be insulted like this. Make up
your minds at once what you will do, for I vow that you shall marry the
Yellow Dwarf. If you don't, may I burn my crutch!"

"Ah! Princess," said the Queen, weeping, "what is this that I hear? What
have you promised?"

"Ah! my mother," replied Bellissima sadly, "what did _you_ promise,
yourself?"

The King of the Gold Mines, indignant at being kept from his happiness
by this wicked old woman, went up to her, and threatening her with his
sword, said:

"Get away out of my country at once, and for ever, miserable creature,
lest I take your life, and so rid myself of your malice."

He had hardly spoken these words when the lid of the box fell back on
the floor with a terrible noise, and to their horror out sprang the
Yellow Dwarf, mounted upon a great Spanish cat. "Rash youth!" he cried,
rushing between the Fairy of the Desert and the King. "Dare to lay a
finger upon this illustrious Fairy! Your quarrel is with me only. I
am your enemy and your rival. That faithless Princess who would have
married you is promised to me. See if she has not upon her finger a ring
made of one of my hairs. Just try to take it off, and you will soon find
out that I am more powerful than you are!"

"Wretched little monster!" said the King; "do you dare to call yourself
the Princess's lover, and to lay claim to such a treasure? Do you know
that you are a dwarf--that you are so ugly that one cannot bear to look
at you--and that I should have killed you myself long before this if you
had been worthy of such a glorious death?"

The Yellow Dwarf, deeply enraged at these words, set spurs to his
cat, which yelled horribly, and leaped hither and thither--terrifying
everybody except the brave King, who pursued the Dwarf closely, till he,
drawing a great knife with which he was armed, challenged the King to
meet him in single combat, and rushed down into the courtyard of the
palace with a terrible clatter. The King, quite provoked, followed him
hastily, but they had hardly taken their places facing one another, and
the whole Court had only just had time to rush out upon the balconies to
watch what was going on, when suddenly the sun became as red as blood,
and it was so dark that they could scarcely see at all. The thunder
crashed, and the lightning seemed as if it must burn up everything; the
two basilisks appeared, one on each side of the bad Dwarf, like giants,
mountains high, and fire flew from their mouths and ears, until they
looked like flaming furnaces. None of these things could terrify the
noble young King, and the boldness of his looks and actions reassured
those who were looking on, and perhaps even embarrassed the Yellow Dwarf
himself; but even _his_ courage gave way when he saw what was happening
to his beloved Princess. For the Fairy of the Desert, looking more
terrible than before, mounted upon a winged griffin, and with long
snakes coiled round her neck, had given her such a blow with the lance
she carried that Bellissima fell into the Queen's arms bleeding and
senseless. Her fond mother, feeling as much hurt by the blow as the
Princess herself, uttered such piercing cries and lamentations that
the King, hearing them, entirely lost his courage and presence of mind.
Giving up the combat, he flew toward the Princess, to rescue or to die
with her; but the Yellow Dwarf was too quick for him. Leaping with his
Spanish cat upon the balcony, he snatched Bellissima from the Queen's
arms, and before any of the ladies of the Court could stop him he had
sprung upon the roof of the palace and disappeared with his prize.

The King, motionless with horror, looked on despairingly at this
dreadful occurrence, which he was quite powerless to prevent, and to
make matters worse his sight failed him, everything became dark, and he
felt himself carried along through the air by a strong hand.

This new misfortune was the work of the wicked Fairy of the Desert, who
had come with the Yellow Dwarf to help him carry off the Princess,
and had fallen in love with the handsome young King of the Gold Mines
directly she saw him. She thought that if she carried him off to some
frightful cavern and chained him to a rock, then the fear of death would
make him forget Bellissima and become her slave. So, as soon as they
reached the place, she gave him back his sight, but without releasing
him from his chains, and by her magic power she appeared before him as
a young and beautiful fairy, and pretended to have come there quite by
chance.

"What do I see?" she cried. "Is it _you_, dear Prince? What misfortune
has brought you to this dismal place?"

The King, who was quite deceived by her altered appearance, replied:

"Alas! beautiful Fairy, the fairy who brought me here first took away
my sight, but by her voice I recognized her as the Fairy of the Desert,
though what she should have carried me off for I cannot tell you."

"Ah!" cried the pretended Fairy, "if you have fallen into _her_ hands,
you won't get away until you have married her. She has carried off more
than one Prince like this, and she will certainly have anything she
takes a fancy to." While she was thus pretending to be sorry for the
King, he suddenly noticed her feet, which were like those of a griffin,
and knew in a moment that this must be the Fairy of the Desert, for her
feet were the one thing she could not change, however pretty she might
make her face.

Without seeming to have noticed anything, he said, in a confidential
way:

"Not that I have any dislike to the Fairy of the Desert, but I really
cannot endure the way in which she protects the Yellow Dwarf and keeps
me chained here like a criminal. It is true that I love a charming
princess, but if the Fairy should set me free my gratitude would oblige
me to love her only."

"Do you really mean what you say, Prince?" said the Fairy, quite
deceived.

"Surely," replied the Prince; "how could I deceive you? You see it is
so much more flattering to my vanity to be loved by a fairy than by
a simple princess. But, even if I am dying of love for her, I shall
pretend to hate her until I am set free."

The Fairy of the Desert, quite taken in by these words, resolved at once
to transport the Prince to a pleasanter place. So, making him mount
her chariot, to which she had harnessed swans instead of the bats which
generally drew it, away she flew with him. But imagine the distress
of the Prince when, from the giddy height at which they were rushing
through the air, he saw his beloved Princess in a castle built of
polished steel, the walls of which reflected the sun's rays so
hotly that no one could approach it without being burnt to a cinder!
Bellissima was sitting in a little thicket by a brook, leaning her head
upon her hand and weeping bitterly, but just as they passed she looked
up and saw the King and the Fairy of the Desert. Now, the Fairy was so
clever that she could not only seem beautiful to the King, but even the
poor Princess thought her the most lovely being she had ever seen.

"What!" she cried; "was I not unhappy enough in this lonely castle to
which that frightful Yellow Dwarf brought me? Must I also be made to
know that the King of the Gold Mines ceased to love me as soon as he
lost sight of me? But who can my rival be, whose fatal beauty is greater
than mine?"

While she was saying this, the King, who really loved her as much as
ever, was feeling terribly sad at being so rapidly torn away from his
beloved Princess, but he knew too well how powerful the Fairy was to
have any hope of escaping from her except by great patience and cunning.

The Fairy of the Desert had also seen Bellissima, and she tried to read
in the King's eyes the effect that this unexpected sight had had upon
him.

"No one can tell you what you wish to know better than I can," said
he. "This chance meeting with an unhappy princess for whom I once had a
passing fancy, before I was lucky enough to meet you, has affected me a
little, I admit, but you are so much more to me than she is that I would
rather die than leave you."

"Ah, Prince," she said, "can I believe that you really love me so much?"

"Time will show, madam," replied the King; "but if you wish to convince
me that you have some regard for me, do not, I beg of you, refuse to aid
Bellissima."

"Do you know what you are asking?" said the Fairy of the Desert,
frowning, and looking at him suspiciously. "Do you want me to employ my
art against the Yellow Dwarf, who is my best friend, and take away from
him a proud princess whom I can but look upon as my rival?"

The King sighed, but made no answer--indeed, what was there to be said
to such a clear-sighted person? At last they reached a vast meadow, gay
with all sorts of flowers; a deep river surrounded it, and many little
brooks murmured softly under the shady trees, where it was always cool
and fresh. A little way off stood a splendid palace, the walls of
which were of transparent emeralds. As soon as the swans which drew
the Fairy's chariot had alighted under a porch, which was paved with
diamonds and had arches of rubies, they were greeted on all sides by
thousands of beautiful beings, who came to meet them joyfully, singing
these words:

  "When Love within a heart would reign,
       Useless to strive against him 'tis.
  The proud but feel a sharper pain,
       And make a greater triumph his."


The Fairy of the Desert was delighted to hear them sing of her triumphs;
she led the King into the most splendid room that can be imagined, and
left him alone for a little while, just that he might not feel that
he was a prisoner; but he felt sure that she had not really gone quite
away, but was watching him from some hiding-place. So walking up to a
great mirror, he said to it, "Trusty counsellor, let me see what I can
do to make myself agreeable to the charming Fairy of the Desert; for I
can think of nothing but how to please her."

And he at once set to work to curl his hair, and, seeing upon a table a
grander coat than his own, he put it on carefully. The Fairy came back
so delighted that she could not conceal her joy.

"I am quite aware of the trouble you have taken to please me," said she,
"and I must tell you that you have succeeded perfectly already. You see
it is not difficult to do if you really care for me."

The King, who had his own reasons for wishing to keep the old Fairy in
a good humor, did not spare pretty speeches, and after a time he was
allowed to walk by himself upon the sea-shore. The Fairy of the Desert
had by her enchantments raised such a terrible storm that the boldest
pilot would not venture out in it, so she was not afraid of her
prisoner's being able to escape; and he found it some relief to think
sadly over his terrible situation without being interrupted by his cruel
captor.

Presently, after walking wildly up and down, he wrote these verses upon
the sand with his stick:

     "At last may I upon this shore
       Lighten my sorrow with soft tears.
     Alas! alas! I see no more
       My Love, who yet my sadness cheers.

     "And thou, O raging, stormy Sea,
       Stirred by wild winds, from depth to height,
     Thou hold'st my loved one far from me,
       And I am captive to thy might.

     "My heart is still more wild than thine,
       For Fate is cruel unto me.
     Why must I thus in exile pine?
       Why is my Princess snatched from me?

     "O! lovely Nymphs, from ocean caves,
       Who know how sweet true love may be,
     Come up and calm the furious waves
       And set a desperate lover free!"


While he was still writing he heard a voice which attracted his
attention in spite of himself. Seeing that the waves were rolling in
higher than ever, he looked all round, and presently saw a lovely lady
floating gently toward him upon the crest of a huge billow, her long
hair spread all about her; in one hand she held a mirror, and in the
other a comb, and instead of feet she had a beautiful tail like a fish,
with which she swam.

The King was struck dumb with astonishment at this unexpected sight; but
as soon as she came within speaking distance, she said to him, "I know
how sad you are at losing your Princess and being kept a prisoner by
the Fairy of the Desert; if you like I will help you to escape from this
fatal place, where you may otherwise have to drag on a weary existence
for thirty years or more."

The King of the Gold Mines hardly knew what answer to make to this
proposal. Not because he did not wish very much to escape, but he was
afraid that this might be only another device by which the Fairy of
the Desert was trying to deceive him. As he hesitated the Mermaid, who
guessed his thoughts, said to him:

"You may trust me: I am not trying to entrap you. I am so angry with the
Yellow Dwarf and the Fairy of the Desert that I am not likely to wish to
help them, especially since I constantly see your poor Princess, whose
beauty and goodness make me pity her so much; and I tell you that if you
will have confidence in me I will help you to escape."

"I trust you absolutely," cried the King, "and I will do whatever you
tell me; but if you have seen my Princess I beg of you to tell me how
she is and what is happening to her.

"We must not waste time in talking," said she. "Come with me and I will
carry you to the Castle of Steel, and we will leave upon this shore a
figure so like you that even the Fairy herself will be deceived by it."

So saying, she quickly collected a bundle of sea-weed, and, blowing it
three times, she said:

"My friendly sea-weeds, I order you to stay here stretched upon the sand
until the Fairy of the Desert comes to take you away." And at once
the sea-weeds became like the King, who stood looking at them in great
astonishment, for they were even dressed in a coat like his, but they
lay there pale and still as the King himself might have lain if one
of the great waves had overtaken him and thrown him senseless upon
the shore. And then the Mermaid caught up the King, and away they swam
joyfully together.

"Now," said she, "I have time to tell you about the Princess. In spite
of the blow which the Fairy of the Desert gave her, the Yellow Dwarf
compelled her to mount behind him upon his terrible Spanish cat; but she
soon fainted away with pain and terror, and did not recover till they
were within the walls of his frightful Castle of Steel. Here she was
received by the prettiest girls it was possible to find, who had been
carried there by the Yellow Dwarf, who hastened to wait upon her and
showed her every possible attention. She was laid upon a couch covered
with cloth of gold, embroidered with pearls as big as nuts."

"Ah!" interrupted the King of the Gold Mines, "if Bellissima forgets me,
and consents to marry him, I shall break my heart."

"You need not be afraid of that," answered the Mermaid, "the Princess
thinks of no one but you, and the frightful Dwarf cannot persuade her to
look at him."

"Pray go on with your story," said the King.

"What more is there to tell you?" replied the Mermaid. "Bellissima was
sitting in the wood when you passed, and saw you with the Fairy of the
Desert, who was so cleverly disguised that the Princess took her to be
prettier than herself; you may imagine her despair, for she thought that
you had fallen in love with her."

"She believes that I love her!" cried the King. "What a fatal mistake!
What is to be done to undeceive her?"

"You know best," answered the Mermaid, smiling kindly at him. "When
people are as much in love with one another as you two are, they don't
need advice from anyone else."

As she spoke they reached the Castle of Steel, the side next the sea
being the only one which the Yellow Dwarf had left unprotected by the
dreadful burning walls.

"I know quite well," said the Mermaid, "that the Princess is sitting by
the brook-side, just where you saw her as you passed, but as you will
have many enemies to fight with before you can reach her, take this
sword; armed with it you may dare any danger, and overcome the greatest
difficulties, only beware of one thing--that is, never to let it fall
from your hand. Farewell; now I will wait by that rock, and if you need
my help in carrying off your beloved Princess I will not fail you, for
the Queen, her mother, is my best friend, and it was for her sake that I
went to rescue you."

So saying, she gave to the King a sword made from a single diamond,
which was more brilliant than the sun. He could not find words to
express his gratitude, but he begged her to believe that he fully
appreciated the importance of her gift, and would never forget her help
and kindness.

We must now go back to the Fairy of the Desert. When she found that the
King did not return, she hastened out to look for him, and reached the
shore, with a hundred of the ladies of her train, loaded with splendid
presents for him. Some carried baskets full of diamonds, others golden
cups of wonderful workmanship, and amber, coral, and pearls, others,
again, balanced upon their heads bales of the richest and most beautiful
stuffs, while the rest brought fruit and flowers, and even birds. But
what was the horror of the Fairy, who followed this gay troop, when she
saw, stretched upon the sands, the image of the King which the Mermaid
had made with the sea-weeds. Struck with astonishment and sorrow, she
uttered a terrible cry, and threw herself down beside the pretended
King, weeping, and howling, and calling upon her eleven sisters, who
were also fairies, and who came to her assistance. But they were all
taken in by the image of the King, for, clever as they were, the Mermaid
was still cleverer, and all they could do was to help the Fairy of the
Desert to make a wonderful monument over what they thought was the grave
of the King of the Gold Mines. But while they were collecting jasper
and porphyry, agate and marble, gold and bronze, statues and devices,
to immortalize the King's memory, he was thanking the good Mermaid and
begging her still to help him, which she graciously promised to do as
she disappeared; and then he set out for the Castle of Steel. He walked
fast, looking anxiously round him, and longing once more to see his
darling Bellissima, but he had not gone far before he was surrounded by
four terrible sphinxes who would very soon have torn him to pieces with
their sharp talons if it had not been for the Mermaid's diamond sword.
For, no sooner had he flashed it before their eyes than down they fell
at his feet quite helpless, and he killed them with one blow. But he
had hardly turned to continue his search when he met six dragons covered
with scales that were harder than iron. Frightful as this encounter was
the King's courage was unshaken, and by the aid of his wonderful sword
he cut them in pieces one after the other. Now he hoped his difficulties
were over, but at the next turning he was met by one which he did
not know how to overcome. Four-and-twenty pretty and graceful nymphs
advanced toward him, holding garlands of flowers, with which they barred
the way.

"Where are you going, Prince?" they said; "it is our duty to guard this
place, and if we let you pass great misfortunes will happen to you
and to us. We beg you not to insist upon going on. Do you want to kill
four-and-twenty girls who have never displeased you in any way?"

The King did not know what to do or to say. It went against all his
ideas as a knight to do anything a lady begged him not to do; but, as he
hesitated, a voice in his ear said:

"Strike! strike! and do not spare, or your Princess is lost for ever!"

So, without reply to the nymphs, he rushed forward instantly, breaking
their garlands, and scattering them in all directions; and then went
on without further hindrance to the little wood where he had seen
Bellissima. She was seated by the brook looking pale and weary when he
reached her, and he would have thrown himself down at her feet, but she
drew herself away from him with as much indignation as if he had been
the Yellow Dwarf.

"Ah! Princess," he cried, "do not be angry with me. Let me explain
everything. I am not faithless or to blame for what has happened. I am
a miserable wretch who has displeased you without being able to help
himself."

"Ah!" cried Bellissima, "did I not see you flying through the air with
the loveliest being imaginable? Was that against your will?"

"Indeed it was, Princess," he answered; "the wicked Fairy of the Desert,
not content with chaining me to a rock, carried me off in her chariot to
the other end of the earth, where I should even now be a captive but for
the unexpected help of a friendly mermaid, who brought me here to rescue
you, my Princess, from the unworthy hands that hold you. Do not refuse
the aid of your most faithful lover." So saying, he threw himself at her
feet and held her by her robe. But, alas! in so doing he let fall the
magic sword, and the Yellow Dwarf, who was crouching behind a lettuce,
no sooner saw it than he sprang out and seized it, well knowing its
wonderful power.

The Princess gave a cry of terror on seeing the Dwarf, but this only
irritated the little monster; muttering a few magical words he summoned
two giants, who bound the King with great chains of iron.

"Now," said the Dwarf, "I am master of my rival's fate, but I will give
him his life and permission to depart unharmed if you, Princess, will
consent to marry me."

"Let me die a thousand times rather," cried the unhappy King.

"Alas!" cried the Princess, "must you die? Could anything be more
terrible?"

"That you should marry that little wretch would be far more terrible,"
answered the King.

"At least," continued she, "let us die together."

"Let me have the satisfaction of dying for you, my Princess," said he.

"Oh, no, no!" she cried, turning to the Dwarf; "rather than that I will
do as you wish."

"Cruel Princess!" said the King, "would you make my life horrible to me
by marrying another before my eyes?"

"Not so," replied the Yellow Dwarf; "you are a rival of whom I am too
much afraid; you shall not see our marriage." So saying, in spite of
Bellissima's tears and cries, he stabbed the King to the heart with the
diamond sword.

The poor Princess, seeing her lover lying dead at her feet, could no
longer live without him; she sank down by him and died of a broken
heart.

So ended these unfortunate lovers, whom not even the Mermaid could help,
because all the magic power had been lost with the diamond sword.

As to the wicked Dwarf, he preferred to see the Princess dead rather
than married to the King of the Gold Mines; and the Fairy of the Desert,
when she heard of the King's adventures, pulled down the grand monument
which she had built, and was so angry at the trick that had been played
her that she hated him as much as she had loved him before.

The kind Mermaid, grieved at the sad fate of the lovers, caused them to
be changed into two tall palm trees, which stand always side by side,
whispering together of their faithful love and caressing one another
with their interlacing branches.(1)


(1) Madame d'Aulnoy.




LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD


Once upon a time there lived in a certain village a little country girl,
the prettiest creature was ever seen. Her mother was excessively fond
of her; and her grandmother doted on her still more. This good woman
had made for her a little red riding-hood; which became the girl so
extremely well that everybody called her Little Red Riding-Hood.

One day her mother, having made some custards, said to her:

"Go, my dear, and see how thy grandmamma does, for I hear she has been
very ill; carry her a custard, and this little pot of butter."

Little Red Riding-Hood set out immediately to go to her grandmother, who
lived in another village.

As she was going through the wood, she met with Gaffer Wolf, who had
a very great mind to eat her up, but he dared not, because of some
faggot-makers hard by in the forest. He asked her whither she was going.
The poor child, who did not know that it was dangerous to stay and hear
a wolf talk, said to him:

"I am going to see my grandmamma and carry her a custard and a little
pot of butter from my mamma."

"Does she live far off?" said the Wolf.

"Oh! ay," answered Little Red Riding-Hood; "it is beyond that mill you
see there, at the first house in the village."

"Well," said the Wolf, "and I'll go and see her too. I'll go this way
and you go that, and we shall see who will be there soonest."

The Wolf began to run as fast as he could, taking the nearest way,
and the little girl went by that farthest about, diverting herself in
gathering nuts, running after butterflies, and making nosegays of such
little flowers as she met with. The Wolf was not long before he got to
the old woman's house. He knocked at the door--tap, tap.

"Who's there?"

"Your grandchild, Little Red Riding-Hood," replied the Wolf,
counterfeiting her voice; "who has brought you a custard and a little
pot of butter sent you by mamma."

The good grandmother, who was in bed, because she was somewhat ill,
cried out:

"Pull the bobbin, and the latch will go up."

The Wolf pulled the bobbin, and the door opened, and then presently he
fell upon the good woman and ate her up in a moment, for it was above
three days that he had not touched a bit. He then shut the door and went
into the grandmother's bed, expecting Little Red Riding-Hood, who came
some time afterward and knocked at the door--tap, tap.

"Who's there?"

Little Red Riding-Hood, hearing the big voice of the Wolf, was at first
afraid; but believing her grandmother had got a cold and was hoarse,
answered:

"'Tis your grandchild, Little Red Riding-Hood, who has brought you a
custard and a little pot of butter mamma sends you."

The Wolf cried out to her, softening his voice as much as he could:

"Pull the bobbin, and the latch will go up."

Little Red Riding-Hood pulled the bobbin, and the door opened.

The Wolf, seeing her come in, said to her, hiding himself under the
bed-clothes:

"Put the custard and the little pot of butter upon the stool, and come
and lie down with me."

Little Red Riding-Hood undressed herself and went into bed, where, being
greatly amazed to see how her grandmother looked in her night-clothes,
she said to her:

"Grandmamma, what great arms you have got!"

"That is the better to hug thee, my dear."

"Grandmamma, what great legs you have got!"

"That is to run the better, my child."

"Grandmamma, what great ears you have got!"

"That is to hear the better, my child."

"Grandmamma, what great eyes you have got!"

"It is to see the better, my child."

"Grandmamma, what great teeth you have got!"

"That is to eat thee up."

And, saying these words, this wicked wolf fell upon Little Red
Riding-Hood, and ate her all up.




THE SLEEPING BEAUTY IN THE WOOD


There were formerly a king and a queen, who were so sorry that they had
no children; so sorry that it cannot be expressed. They went to all the
waters in the world; vows, pilgrimages, all ways were tried, and all to
no purpose.

At last, however, the Queen had a daughter. There was a very fine
christening; and the Princess had for her god-mothers all the fairies
they could find in the whole kingdom (they found seven), that every one
of them might give her a gift, as was the custom of fairies in those
days. By this means the Princess had all the perfections imaginable.

After the ceremonies of the christening were over, all the company
returned to the King's palace, where was prepared a great feast for the
fairies. There was placed before every one of them a magnificent cover
with a case of massive gold, wherein were a spoon, knife, and fork, all
of pure gold set with diamonds and rubies. But as they were all sitting
down at table they saw come into the hall a very old fairy, whom they
had not invited, because it was above fifty years since she had been out
of a certain tower, and she was believed to be either dead or enchanted.

The King ordered her a cover, but could not furnish her with a case
of gold as the others, because they had only seven made for the seven
fairies. The old Fairy fancied she was slighted, and muttered some
threats between her teeth. One of the young fairies who sat by her
overheard how she grumbled; and, judging that she might give the little
Princess some unlucky gift, went, as soon as they rose from table, and
hid herself behind the hangings, that she might speak last, and repair,
as much as she could, the evil which the old Fairy might intend.

In the meanwhile all the fairies began to give their gifts to the
Princess. The youngest gave her for gift that she should be the most
beautiful person in the world; the next, that she should have the wit
of an angel; the third, that she should have a wonderful grace in
everything she did; the fourth, that she should dance perfectly well;
the fifth, that she should sing like a nightingale; and the sixth, that
she should play all kinds of music to the utmost perfection.

The old Fairy's turn coming next, with a head shaking more with spite
than age, she said that the Princess should have her hand pierced with a
spindle and die of the wound. This terrible gift made the whole company
tremble, and everybody fell a-crying.

At this very instant the young Fairy came out from behind the hangings,
and spake these words aloud:

"Assure yourselves, O King and Queen, that your daughter shall not die
of this disaster. It is true, I have no power to undo entirely what
my elder has done. The Princess shall indeed pierce her hand with a
spindle; but, instead of dying, she shall only fall into a profound
sleep, which shall last a hundred years, at the expiration of which a
king's son shall come and awake her."

The King, to avoid the misfortune foretold by the old Fairy, caused
immediately proclamation to be made, whereby everybody was forbidden, on
pain of death, to spin with a distaff and spindle, or to have so much as
any spindle in their houses. About fifteen or sixteen years after, the
King and Queen being gone to one of their houses of pleasure, the young
Princess happened one day to divert herself in running up and down the
palace; when going up from one apartment to another, she came into a
little room on the top of the tower, where a good old woman, alone, was
spinning with her spindle. This good woman had never heard of the King's
proclamation against spindles.

"What are you doing there, goody?" said the Princess.

"I am spinning, my pretty child," said the old woman, who did not know
who she was.

"Ha!" said the Princess, "this is very pretty; how do you do it? Give it
to me, that I may see if I can do so."

She had no sooner taken it into her hand than, whether being very hasty
at it, somewhat unhandy, or that the decree of the Fairy had so ordained
it, it ran into her hand, and she fell down in a swoon.

The good old woman, not knowing very well what to do in this affair,
cried out for help. People came in from every quarter in great numbers;
they threw water upon the Princess's face, unlaced her, struck her on
the palms of her hands, and rubbed her temples with Hungary-water; but
nothing would bring her to herself.

And now the King, who came up at the noise, bethought himself of
the prediction of the fairies, and, judging very well that this must
necessarily come to pass, since the fairies had said it, caused the
Princess to be carried into the finest apartment in his palace, and to
be laid upon a bed all embroidered with gold and silver.

One would have taken her for a little angel, she was so very beautiful;
for her swooning away had not diminished one bit of her complexion; her
cheeks were carnation, and her lips were coral; indeed, her eyes were
shut, but she was heard to breathe softly, which satisfied those about
her that she was not dead. The King commanded that they should not
disturb her, but let her sleep quietly till her hour of awaking was
come.

The good Fairy who had saved her life by condemning her to sleep a
hundred years was in the kingdom of Matakin, twelve thousand leagues
off, when this accident befell the Princess; but she was instantly
informed of it by a little dwarf, who had boots of seven leagues, that
is, boots with which he could tread over seven leagues of ground in one
stride. The Fairy came away immediately, and she arrived, about an hour
after, in a fiery chariot drawn by dragons.

The King handed her out of the chariot, and she approved everything
he had done, but as she had very great foresight, she thought when the
Princess should awake she might not know what to do with herself, being
all alone in this old palace; and this was what she did: she
touched with her wand everything in the palace (except the King
and Queen)--governesses, maids of honor, ladies of the bedchamber,
gentlemen, officers, stewards, cooks, undercooks, scullions, guards,
with their beefeaters, pages, footmen; she likewise touched all the
horses which were in the stables, pads as well as others, the great dogs
in the outward court and pretty little Mopsey too, the Princess's little
spaniel, which lay by her on the bed.

Immediately upon her touching them they all fell asleep, that they might
not awake before their mistress and that they might be ready to wait
upon her when she wanted them. The very spits at the fire, as full as
they could hold of partridges and pheasants, did fall asleep also. All
this was done in a moment. Fairies are not long in doing their business.

And now the King and the Queen, having kissed their dear child without
waking her, went out of the palace and put forth a proclamation that
nobody should dare to come near it.

This, however, was not necessary, for in a quarter of an hour's time
there grew up all round about the park such a vast number of trees,
great and small, bushes and brambles, twining one within another, that
neither man nor beast could pass through; so that nothing could be seen
but the very top of the towers of the palace; and that, too, not unless
it was a good way off. Nobody; doubted but the Fairy gave herein a very
extraordinary sample of her art, that the Princess, while she continued
sleeping, might have nothing to fear from any curious people.

When a hundred years were gone and passed the son of the King then
reigning, and who was of another family from that of the sleeping
Princess, being gone a-hunting on that side of the country, asked:

What those towers were which he saw in the middle of a great thick wood?

Everyone answered according as they had heard. Some said:

That it was a ruinous old castle, haunted by spirits.

Others, That all the sorcerers and witches of the country kept there
their sabbath or night's meeting.

The common opinion was: That an ogre lived there, and that he carried
thither all the little children he could catch, that he might eat them
up at his leisure, without anybody being able to follow him, as having
himself only the power to pass through the wood.

The Prince was at a stand, not knowing what to believe, when a very good
countryman spake to him thus:

"May it please your royal highness, it is now about fifty years since I
heard from my father, who heard my grandfather say, that there was then
in this castle a princess, the most beautiful was ever seen; that she
must sleep there a hundred years, and should be waked by a king's son,
for whom she was reserved."

The young Prince was all on fire at these words, believing, without
weighing the matter, that he could put an end to this rare adventure;
and, pushed on by love and honor, resolved that moment to look into it.

Scarce had he advanced toward the wood when all the great trees, the
bushes, and brambles gave way of themselves to let him pass through; he
walked up to the castle which he saw at the end of a large avenue which
he went into; and what a little surprised him was that he saw none of
his people could follow him, because the trees closed again as soon as
he had passed through them. However, he did not cease from continuing
his way; a young and amorous prince is always valiant.

He came into a spacious outward court, where everything he saw might
have frozen the most fearless person with horror. There reigned all over
a most frightful silence; the image of death everywhere showed itself,
and there was nothing to be seen but stretched-out bodies of men and
animals, all seeming to be dead. He, however, very well knew, by the
ruby faces and pimpled noses of the beefeaters, that they were only
asleep; and their goblets, wherein still remained some drops of wine,
showed plainly that they fell asleep in their cups.

He then crossed a court paved with marble, went up the stairs and came
into the guard chamber, where guards were standing in their ranks, with
their muskets upon their shoulders, and snoring as loud as they could.
After that he went through several rooms full of gentlemen and ladies,
all asleep, some standing, others sitting. At last he came into a
chamber all gilded with gold, where he saw upon a bed, the curtains of
which were all open, the finest sight was ever beheld--a princess, who
appeared to be about fifteen or sixteen years of age, and whose bright
and, in a manner, resplendent beauty, had somewhat in it divine. He
approached with trembling and admiration, and fell down before her upon
his knees.

And now, as the enchantment was at an end, the Princess awaked, and
looking on him with eyes more tender than the first view might seem to
admit of:

"Is it you, my Prince?" said she to him. "You have waited a long while."

The Prince, charmed with these words, and much more with the manner in
which they were spoken, knew not how to show his joy and gratitude;
he assured her that he loved her better than he did himself; their
discourse was not well connected, they did weep more than talk--little
eloquence, a great deal of love. He was more at a loss than she, and we
need not wonder at it; she had time to think on what to say to him; for
it is very probable (though history mentions nothing of it) that the
good Fairy, during so long a sleep, had given her very agreeable dreams.
In short, they talked four hours together, and yet they said not half
what they had to say.

In the meanwhile all the palace awaked; everyone thought upon their
particular business, and as all of them were not in love they were ready
to die for hunger. The chief lady of honor, being as sharp set as other
folks, grew very impatient, and told the Princess aloud that supper
was served up. The Prince helped the Princess to rise; she was entirely
dressed, and very magnificently, but his royal highness took care not
to tell her that she was dressed like his great-grandmother, and had
a point band peeping over a high collar; she looked not a bit less
charming and beautiful for all that.

They went into the great hall of looking-glasses, where they supped, and
were served by the Princess's officers, the violins and hautboys played
old tunes, but very excellent, though it was now above a hundred years
since they had played; and after supper, without losing any time, the
lord almoner married them in the chapel of the castle, and the chief
lady of honor drew the curtains. They had but very little sleep--the
Princess had no occasion; and the Prince left her next morning to return
to the city, where his father must needs have been in pain for him. The
Prince told him:

That he lost his way in the forest as he was hunting, and that he had
lain in the cottage of a charcoal-burner, who gave him cheese and brown
bread.

The King, his father, who was a good man, believed him; but his mother
could not be persuaded it was true; and seeing that he went almost every
day a-hunting, and that he always had some excuse ready for so doing,
though he had lain out three or four nights together, she began to
suspect that he was married, for he lived with the Princess above two
whole years, and had by her two children, the eldest of which, who was
a daughter, was named Morning, and the youngest, who was a son, they
called Day, because he was a great deal handsomer and more beautiful
than his sister.

The Queen spoke several times to her son, to inform herself after
what manner he did pass his time, and that in this he ought in duty to
satisfy her. But he never dared to trust her with his secret; he feared
her, though he loved her, for she was of the race of the Ogres, and the
King would never have married her had it not been for her vast riches;
it was even whispered about the Court that she had Ogreish inclinations,
and that, whenever she saw little children passing by, she had all the
difficulty in the world to avoid falling upon them. And so the Prince
would never tell her one word.

But when the King was dead, which happened about two years afterward,
and he saw himself lord and master, he openly declared his marriage; and
he went in great ceremony to conduct his Queen to the palace. They made
a magnificent entry into the capital city, she riding between her two
children.

Soon after the King went to make war with the Emperor Contalabutte, his
neighbor. He left the government of the kingdom to the Queen his mother,
and earnestly recommended to her care his wife and children. He was
obliged to continue his expedition all the summer, and as soon as he
departed the Queen-mother sent her daughter-in-law to a country house
among the woods, that she might with the more ease gratify her horrible
longing.

Some few days afterward she went thither herself, and said to her clerk
of the kitchen:

"I have a mind to eat little Morning for my dinner to-morrow."

"Ah! madam," cried the clerk of the kitchen.

"I will have it so," replied the Queen (and this she spoke in the tone
of an Ogress who had a strong desire to eat fresh meat), "and will eat
her with a sauce Robert."

The poor man, knowing very well that he must not play tricks with
Ogresses, took his great knife and went up into little Morning's
chamber. She was then four years old, and came up to him jumping and
laughing, to take him about the neck, and ask him for some sugar-candy.
Upon which he began to weep, the great knife fell out of his hand, and
he went into the back yard, and killed a little lamb, and dressed it
with such good sauce that his mistress assured him that she had never
eaten anything so good in her life. He had at the same time taken up
little Morning, and carried her to his wife, to conceal her in the
lodging he had at the bottom of the courtyard.

About eight days afterward the wicked Queen said to the clerk of the
kitchen, "I will sup on little Day."

He answered not a word, being resolved to cheat her as he had done
before. He went to find out little Day, and saw him with a little foil
in his hand, with which he was fencing with a great monkey, the child
being then only three years of age. He took him up in his arms and
carried him to his wife, that she might conceal him in her chamber along
with his sister, and in the room of little Day cooked up a young kid,
very tender, which the Ogress found to be wonderfully good.

This was hitherto all mighty well; but one evening this wicked Queen
said to her clerk of the kitchen:

"I will eat the Queen with the same sauce I had with her children."

It was now that the poor clerk of the kitchen despaired of being able
to deceive her. The young Queen was turned of twenty, not reckoning the
hundred years she had been asleep; and how to find in the yard a beast
so firm was what puzzled him. He took then a resolution, that he might
save his own life, to cut the Queen's throat; and going up into her
chamber, with intent to do it at once, he put himself into as great
fury as he could possibly, and came into the young Queen's room with his
dagger in his hand. He would not, however, surprise her, but told
her, with a great deal of respect, the orders he had received from the
Queen-mother.

"Do it; do it" (said she, stretching out her neck). "Execute your
orders, and then I shall go and see my children, my poor children, whom
I so much and so tenderly loved."

For she thought them dead ever since they had been taken away without
her knowledge.

"No, no, madam" (cried the poor clerk of the kitchen, all in tears);
"you shall not die, and yet you shall see your children again; but then
you must go home with me to my lodgings, where I have concealed them,
and I shall deceive the Queen once more, by giving her in your stead a
young hind."

Upon this he forthwith conducted her to his chamber, where, leaving her
to embrace her children, and cry along with them, he went and dressed a
young hind, which the Queen had for her supper, and devoured it with
the same appetite as if it had been the young Queen. Exceedingly was
she delighted with her cruelty, and she had invented a story to tell the
King, at his return, how the mad wolves had eaten up the Queen his wife
and her two children.

One evening, as she was, according to her custom, rambling round about
the courts and yards of the palace to see if she could smell any fresh
meat, she heard, in a ground room, little Day crying, for his mamma was
going to whip him, because he had been naughty; and she heard, at the
same time, little Morning begging pardon for her brother.

The Ogress presently knew the voice of the Queen and her children, and
being quite mad that she had been thus deceived, she commanded next
morning, by break of day (with a most horrible voice, which made
everybody tremble), that they should bring into the middle of the great
court a large tub, which she caused to be filled with toads, vipers,
snakes, and all sorts of serpents, in order to have thrown into it the
Queen and her children, the clerk of the kitchen, his wife and maid;
all whom she had given orders should be brought thither with their hands
tied behind them.

They were brought out accordingly, and the executioners were just going
to throw them into the tub, when the King (who was not so soon expected)
entered the court on horseback (for he came post) and asked, with the
utmost astonishment, what was the meaning of that horrible spectacle.

No one dared to tell him, when the Ogress, all enraged to see what had
happened, threw herself head foremost into the tub, and was instantly
devoured by the ugly creatures she had ordered to be thrown into it for
others. The King could not but be very sorry, for she was his mother;
but he soon comforted himself with his beautiful wife and his pretty
children.




CINDERELLA, OR THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER


Once there was a gentleman who married, for his second wife, the
proudest and most haughty woman that was ever seen. She had, by a former
husband, two daughters of her own humor, who were, indeed, exactly like
her in all things. He had likewise, by another wife, a young daughter,
but of unparalleled goodness and sweetness of temper, which she took
from her mother, who was the best creature in the world.

No sooner were the ceremonies of the wedding over but the mother-in-law
began to show herself in her true colors. She could not bear the good
qualities of this pretty girl, and the less because they made her own
daughters appear the more odious. She employed her in the meanest work
of the house: she scoured the dishes, tables, etc., and scrubbed madam's
chamber, and those of misses, her daughters; she lay up in a sorry
garret, upon a wretched straw bed, while her sisters lay in fine rooms,
with floors all inlaid, upon beds of the very newest fashion, and where
they had looking-glasses so large that they might see themselves at
their full length from head to foot.

The poor girl bore all patiently, and dared not tell her father, who
would have rattled her off; for his wife governed him entirely. When she
had done her work, she used to go into the chimney-corner, and sit down
among cinders and ashes, which made her commonly be called Cinderwench;
but the youngest, who was not so rude and uncivil as the eldest, called
her Cinderella. However, Cinderella, notwithstanding her mean apparel,
was a hundred times handsomer than her sisters, though they were always
dressed very richly.

It happened that the King's son gave a ball, and invited all persons of
fashion to it. Our young misses were also invited, for they cut a very
grand figure among the quality. They were mightily delighted at this
invitation, and wonderfully busy in choosing out such gowns, petticoats,
and head-clothes as might become them. This was a new trouble to
Cinderella; for it was she who ironed her sisters' linen, and plaited
their ruffles; they talked all day long of nothing but how they should
be dressed.

"For my part," said the eldest, "I will wear my red velvet suit with
French trimming."

"And I," said the youngest, "shall have my usual petticoat; but then,
to make amends for that, I will put on my gold-flowered manteau, and my
diamond stomacher, which is far from being the most ordinary one in the
world."

They sent for the best tire-woman they could get to make up their
head-dresses and adjust their double pinners, and they had their red
brushes and patches from Mademoiselle de la Poche.

Cinderella was likewise called up to them to be consulted in all these
matters, for she had excellent notions, and advised them always for the
best, nay, and offered her services to dress their heads, which they
were very willing she should do. As she was doing this, they said to
her:

"Cinderella, would you not be glad to go to the ball?"

"Alas!" said she, "you only jeer me; it is not for such as I am to go
thither."

"Thou art in the right of it," replied they; "it would make the people
laugh to see a Cinderwench at a ball."

Anyone but Cinderella would have dressed their heads awry, but she was
very good, and dressed them perfectly well They were almost two days
without eating, so much were they transported with joy. They broke above
a dozen laces in trying to be laced up close, that they might have a
fine slender shape, and they were continually at their looking-glass.
At last the happy day came; they went to Court, and Cinderella followed
them with her eyes as long as she could, and when she had lost sight of
them, she fell a-crying.

Her godmother, who saw her all in tears, asked her what was the matter.

"I wish I could--I wish I could--"; she was not able to speak the rest,
being interrupted by her tears and sobbing.

This godmother of hers, who was a fairy, said to her, "Thou wishest thou
couldst go to the ball; is it not so?"

"Y--es," cried Cinderella, with a great sigh.

"Well," said her godmother, "be but a good girl, and I will contrive
that thou shalt go." Then she took her into her chamber, and said to
her, "Run into the garden, and bring me a pumpkin."

Cinderella went immediately to gather the finest she could get, and
brought it to her godmother, not being able to imagine how this pumpkin
could make her go to the ball. Her godmother scooped out all the inside
of it, having left nothing but the rind; which done, she struck it with
her wand, and the pumpkin was instantly turned into a fine coach, gilded
all over with gold.

She then went to look into her mouse-trap, where she found six mice, all
alive, and ordered Cinderella to lift up a little the trapdoor, when,
giving each mouse, as it went out, a little tap with her wand, the mouse
was that moment turned into a fine horse, which altogether made a very
fine set of six horses of a beautiful mouse-colored dapple-gray. Being
at a loss for a coachman,

"I will go and see," says Cinderella, "if there is never a rat in the
rat-trap--we may make a coachman of him."

"Thou art in the right," replied her godmother; "go and look."

Cinderella brought the trap to her, and in it there were three huge
rats. The fairy made choice of one of the three which had the largest
beard, and, having touched him with her wand, he was turned into a fat,
jolly coachman, who had the smartest whiskers eyes ever beheld. After
that, she said to her:

"Go again into the garden, and you will find six lizards behind the
watering-pot, bring them to me."

She had no sooner done so but her godmother turned them into six
footmen, who skipped up immediately behind the coach, with their
liveries all bedaubed with gold and silver, and clung as close behind
each other as if they had done nothing else their whole lives. The Fairy
then said to Cinderella:

"Well, you see here an equipage fit to go to the ball with; are you not
pleased with it?"

"Oh! yes," cried she; "but must I go thither as I am, in these nasty
rags?"

Her godmother only just touched her with her wand, and, at the same
instant, her clothes were turned into cloth of gold and silver, all
beset with jewels. This done, she gave her a pair of glass slippers, the
prettiest in the whole world. Being thus decked out, she got up into her
coach; but her godmother, above all things, commanded her not to stay
till after midnight, telling her, at the same time, that if she stayed
one moment longer, the coach would be a pumpkin again, her horses mice,
her coachman a rat, her footmen lizards, and her clothes become just as
they were before.

She promised her godmother she would not fail of leaving the ball before
midnight; and then away she drives, scarce able to contain herself for
joy. The King's son who was told that a great princess, whom nobody
knew, was come, ran out to receive her; he gave her his hand as she
alighted out of the coach, and led her into the ball, among all the
company. There was immediately a profound silence, they left off
dancing, and the violins ceased to play, so attentive was everyone to
contemplate the singular beauties of the unknown new-comer. Nothing was
then heard but a confused noise of:

"Ha! how handsome she is! Ha! how handsome she is!"

The King himself, old as he was, could not help watching her, and
telling the Queen softly that it was a long time since he had seen so
beautiful and lovely a creature.

All the ladies were busied in considering her clothes and headdress,
that they might have some made next day after the same pattern, provided
they could meet with such fine material and as able hands to make them.

The King's son conducted her to the most honorable seat, and afterward
took her out to dance with him; she danced so very gracefully that they
all more and more admired her. A fine collation was served up, whereof
the young prince ate not a morsel, so intently was he busied in gazing
on her.

She went and sat down by her sisters, showing them a thousand
civilities, giving them part of the oranges and citrons which the Prince
had presented her with, which very much surprised them, for they did not
know her. While Cinderella was thus amusing her sisters, she heard the
clock strike eleven and three-quarters, whereupon she immediately made a
courtesy to the company and hasted away as fast as she could.

When she got home she ran to seek out her godmother, and, after having
thanked her, she said she could not but heartily wish she might go next
day to the ball, because the King's son had desired her.

As she was eagerly telling her godmother whatever had passed at the
ball, her two sisters knocked at the door, which Cinderella ran and
opened.

"How long you have stayed!" cried she, gaping, rubbing her eyes and
stretching herself as if she had been just waked out of her sleep; she
had not, however, any manner of inclination to sleep since they went
from home.

"If thou hadst been at the ball," said one of her sisters, "thou wouldst
not have been tired with it. There came thither the finest princess, the
most beautiful ever was seen with mortal eyes; she showed us a thousand
civilities, and gave us oranges and citrons."

Cinderella seemed very indifferent in the matter; indeed, she asked them
the name of that princess; but they told her they did not know it, and
that the King's son was very uneasy on her account and would give all
the world to know who she was. At this Cinderella, smiling, replied:

"She must, then, be very beautiful indeed; how happy you have been!
Could not I see her? Ah! dear Miss Charlotte, do lend me your yellow
suit of clothes which you wear every day."

"Ay, to be sure!" cried Miss Charlotte; "lend my clothes to such a dirty
Cinderwench as thou art! I should be a fool."

Cinderella, indeed, expected well such answer, and was very glad of the
refusal; for she would have been sadly put to it if her sister had lent
her what she asked for jestingly.

The next day the two sisters were at the ball, and so was Cinderella,
but dressed more magnificently than before. The King's son was always by
her, and never ceased his compliments and kind speeches to her; to whom
all this was so far from being tiresome that she quite forgot what her
godmother had recommended to her; so that she, at last, counted the
clock striking twelve when she took it to be no more than eleven; she
then rose up and fled, as nimble as a deer. The Prince followed, but
could not overtake her. She left behind one of her glass slippers, which
the Prince took up most carefully. She got home but quite out of breath,
and in her nasty old clothes, having nothing left her of all her finery
but one of the little slippers, fellow to that she dropped. The guards
at the palace gate were asked:

If they had not seen a princess go out.

Who said: They had seen nobody go out but a young girl, very meanly
dressed, and who had more the air of a poor country wench than a
gentlewoman.

When the two sisters returned from the ball Cinderella asked them: If
they had been well diverted, and if the fine lady had been there.

They told her: Yes, but that she hurried away immediately when it struck
twelve, and with so much haste that she dropped one of her little glass
slippers, the prettiest in the world, which the King's son had taken up;
that he had done nothing but look at her all the time at the ball, and
that most certainly he was very much in love with the beautiful person
who owned the glass slipper.

What they said was very true; for a few days after the King's son caused
it to be proclaimed, by sound of trumpet, that he would marry her whose
foot the slipper would just fit. They whom he employed began to try it
upon the princesses, then the duchesses and all the Court, but in vain;
it was brought to the two sisters, who did all they possibly could
to thrust their foot into the slipper, but they could not effect it.
Cinderella, who saw all this, and knew her slipper, said to them,
laughing:

"Let me see if it will not fit me."

Her sisters burst out a-laughing, and began to banter her. The gentleman
who was sent to try the slipper looked earnestly at Cinderella, and,
finding her very handsome, said:

It was but just that she should try, and that he had orders to let
everyone make trial.

He obliged Cinderella to sit down, and, putting the slipper to her foot,
he found it went on very easily, and fitted her as if it had been made
of wax. The astonishment her two sisters were in was excessively great,
but still abundantly greater when Cinderella pulled out of her pocket
the other slipper, and put it on her foot. Thereupon, in came her
godmother, who, having touched with her wand Cinderella's clothes, made
them richer and more magnificent than any of those she had before.

And now her two sisters found her to be that fine, beautiful lady whom
they had seen at the ball. They threw themselves at her feet to beg
pardon for all the ill-treatment they had made her undergo. Cinderella
took them up, and, as she embraced them, cried:

That she forgave them with all her heart, and desired them always to
love her.

She was conducted to the young prince, dressed as she was; he thought
her more charming than ever, and, a few days after, married her.
Cinderella, who was no less good than beautiful, gave her two sisters
lodgings in the palace, and that very same day matched them with two
great lords of the Court.(1)


(1) Charles Perrault.




ALADDIN AND THE WONDERFUL LAMP


There once lived a poor tailor, who had a son called Aladdin, a
careless, idle boy who would do nothing but play ball all day long in
the streets with little idle boys like himself. This so grieved the
father that he died; yet, in spite of his mother's tears and prayers,
Aladdin did not mend his ways. One day, when he was playing in the
streets as usual, a stranger asked him his age, and if he was not the
son of Mustapha the tailor. "I am, sir," replied Aladdin; "but he died
a long while ago." On this the stranger, who was a famous African
magician, fell on his neck and kissed him, saying, "I am your uncle, and
knew you from your likeness to my brother. Go to your mother and tell
her I am coming." Aladdin ran home and told his mother of his newly
found uncle. "Indeed, child," she said, "your father had a brother, but
I always thought he was dead." However, she prepared supper, and bade
Aladdin seek his uncle, who came laden with wine and fruit. He presently
fell down and kissed the place where Mustapha used to sit, bidding
Aladdin's mother not to be surprised at not having seen him before, as
he had been forty years out of the country. He then turned to Aladdin,
and asked him his trade, at which the boy hung his head, while his
mother burst into tears. On learning that Aladdin was idle and would
learn no trade, he offered to take a shop for him and stock it with
merchandise. Next day he bought Aladdin a fine suit of clothes and took
him all over the city, showing him the sights, and brought him home at
nightfall to his mother, who was overjoyed to see her son so fine.

The next day the magician led Aladdin into some beautiful gardens a long
way outside the city gates. They sat down by a fountain and the magician
pulled a cake from his girdle, which he divided between them. They then
journeyed onward till they almost reached the mountains. Aladdin was
so tired that he begged to go back, but the magician beguiled him with
pleasant stories, and led him on in spite of himself. At last they came
to two mountains divided by a narrow valley. "We will go no farther,"
said the false uncle. "I will show you something wonderful; only do you
gather up sticks while I kindle a fire." When it was lit the magician
threw on it a powder he had about him, at the same time saying some
magical words. The earth trembled a little and opened in front of them,
disclosing a square flat stone with a brass ring in the middle to raise
it by. Aladdin tried to run away, but the magician caught him and gave
him a blow that knocked him down. "What have I done, uncle?" he said
piteously; whereupon the magician said more kindly: "Fear nothing, but
obey me. Beneath this stone lies a treasure which is to be yours, and
no one else may touch it, so you must do exactly as I tell you." At the
word treasure Aladdin forgot his fears, and grasped the ring as he was
told, saying the names of his father and grandfather. The stone came up
quite easily, and some steps appeared. "Go down," said the magician; "at
the foot of those steps you will find an open door leading into three
large halls. Tuck up your gown and go through them without touching
anything, or you will die instantly. These halls lead into a garden of
fine fruit trees. Walk on until you come to a niche in a terrace where
stands a lighted lamp. Pour out the oil it contains, and bring it to
me." He drew a ring from his finger and gave it to Aladdin, bidding him
prosper.

Aladdin found everything as the magician had said, gathered some fruit
off the trees, and, having got the lamp, arrived at the mouth of the
cave. The magician cried out in a great hurry: "Make haste and give me
the lamp." This Aladdin refused to do until he was out of the cave. The
magician flew into a terrible passion, and throwing some more powder
on to the fire, he said something, and the stone rolled back into its
place.

The magician left Persia for ever, which plainly showed that he was no
uncle of Aladdin's, but a cunning magician, who had read in his magic
books of a wonderful lamp, which would make him the most powerful man in
the world. Though he alone knew where to find it, he could only receive
it from the hand of another. He had picked out the foolish Aladdin for
this purpose, intending to get the lamp and kill him afterward.

For two days Aladdin remained in the dark, crying and lamenting. At last
he clasped his hands in prayer, and in so doing rubbed the ring, which
the magician had forgotten to take from him. Immediately an enormous and
frightful genie rose out of the earth, saying: "What wouldst thou with
me? I am the Slave of the Ring, and will obey thee in all things."
Aladdin fearlessly replied: "Deliver me from this place!" whereupon the
earth opened, and he found himself outside. As soon as his eyes could
bear the light he went home, but fainted on the threshold. When he came
to himself he told his mother what had passed, and showed her the lamp
and the fruits he had gathered in the garden, which were, in reality,
precious stones. He then asked for some food. "Alas! child," she said,
"I have nothing in the house, but I have spun a little cotton and will
go and sell it." Aladdin bade her keep her cotton, for he would sell the
lamp instead. As it was very dirty she began to rub it, that it might
fetch a higher price. Instantly a hideous genie appeared, and asked what
she would have. She fainted away, but Aladdin, snatching the lamp, said
boldly: "Fetch me something to eat!" The genie returned with a silver
bowl, twelve silver plates containing rich meats, two silver cups, and
two bottles of wine. Aladdin's mother, when she came to herself, said:
"Whence comes this splendid feast?" "Ask not, but eat," replied Aladdin.
So they sat at breakfast till it was dinner-time, and Aladdin told his
mother about the lamp. She begged him to sell it, and have nothing to do
with devils. "No," said Aladdin, "since chance hath made us aware of
its virtues, we will use it, and the ring likewise, which I shall always
wear on my finger." When they had eaten all the genie had brought,
Aladdin sold one of the silver plates, and so on until none were left.
He then had recourse to the genie, who gave him another set of plates,
and thus they lived for many years.

One day Aladdin heard an order from the Sultan proclaimed that everyone
was to stay at home and close his shutters while the Princess, his
daughter, went to and from the bath. Aladdin was seized by a desire to
see her face, which was very difficult, as she always went veiled. He
hid himself behind the door of the bath, and peeped through a chink. The
Princess lifted her veil as she went in, and looked so beautiful that
Aladdin fell in love with her at first sight. He went home so changed
that his mother was frightened. He told her he loved the Princess so
deeply that he could not live without her, and meant to ask her in
marriage of her father. His mother, on hearing this, burst out laughing,
but Aladdin at last prevailed upon her to go before the Sultan and carry
his request. She fetched a napkin and laid in it the magic fruits from
the enchanted garden, which sparkled and shone like the most beautiful
jewels. She took these with her to please the Sultan, and set out,
trusting in the lamp. The Grand Vizier and the lords of council had
just gone in as she entered the hall and placed herself in front of the
Sultan. He, however, took no notice of her. She went every day for a
week, and stood in the same place. When the council broke up on the
sixth day the Sultan said to his Vizier: "I see a certain woman in the
audience-chamber every day carrying something in a napkin. Call her next
time, that I may find out what she wants." Next day, at a sign from the
Vizier, she went up to the foot of the throne and remained kneeling till
the Sultan said to her: "Rise, good woman, and tell me what you want."
She hesitated, so the Sultan sent away all but the Vizier, and bade
her speak frankly, promising to forgive her beforehand for anything she
might say. She then told him of her son's violent love for the Princess.
"I prayed him to forget her," she said, "but in vain; he threatened to
do some desperate deed if I refused to go and ask your Majesty for the
hand of the Princess. Now I pray you to forgive not me alone, but my
son Aladdin." The Sultan asked her kindly what she had in the
napkin, whereupon she unfolded the jewels and presented them. He was
thunderstruck, and turning to the Vizier said: "What sayest thou? Ought
I not to bestow the Princess on one who values her at such a price?" The
Vizier, who wanted her for his own son, begged the Sultan to withhold
her for three months, in the course of which he hoped his son would
contrive to make him a richer present. The Sultan granted this, and told
Aladdin's mother that, though he consented to the marriage, she must not
appear before him again for three months.

Aladdin waited patiently for nearly three months, but after two had
elapsed his mother, going into the city to buy oil, found every one
rejoicing, and asked what was going on. "Do you not know," was the
answer, "that the son of the Grand Vizier is to marry the Sultan's
daughter to-night?" Breathless, she ran and told Aladdin, who was
overwhelmed at first, but presently bethought him of the lamp. He rubbed
it, and the genie appeared, saying, "What is thy will?" Aladdin replied:
"The Sultan, as thou knowest, has broken his promise to me, and the
Vizier's son is to have the Princess. My command is that to-night you
bring hither the bride and bridegroom." "Master, I obey," said the
genie. Aladdin then went to his chamber, where, sure enough, at midnight
the genie transported the bed containing the Vizier's son and the
Princess. "Take this new-married man," he said, "and put him outside in
the cold, and return at daybreak." Whereupon the genie took the Vizier's
son out of bed, leaving Aladdin with the Princess. "Fear nothing,"
Aladdin said to her; "you are my wife, promised to me by your unjust
father, and no harm shall come to you." The Princess was too frightened
to speak, and passed the most miserable night of her life, while Aladdin
lay down beside her and slept soundly. At the appointed hour the
genie fetched in the shivering bridegroom, laid him in his place, and
transported the bed back to the palace.

Presently the Sultan came to wish his daughter good-morning. The unhappy
Vizier's son jumped up and hid himself, while the Princess would not say
a word, and was very sorrowful. The Sultan sent her mother to her, who
said: "How comes it, child, that you will not speak to your father? What
has happened?" The Princess sighed deeply, and at last told her mother
how, during the night, the bed had been carried into some strange house,
and what had passed there. Her mother did not believe her in the least,
but bade her rise and consider it an idle dream.

The following night exactly the same thing happened, and next morning,
on the Princess's refusal to speak, the Sultan threatened to cut off her
head. She then confessed all, bidding him to ask the Vizier's son if it
were not so. The Sultan told the Vizier to ask his son, who owned the
truth, adding that, dearly as he loved the Princess, he had rather die
than go through another such fearful night, and wished to be separated
from her. His wish was granted, and there was an end to feasting and
rejoicing.

When the three months were over, Aladdin sent his mother to remind the
Sultan of his promise. She stood in the same place as before, and the
Sultan, who had forgotten Aladdin, at once remembered him, and sent for
her. On seeing her poverty the Sultan felt less inclined than ever to
keep his word, and asked his Vizier's advice, who counselled him to set
so high a value on the Princess that no man living could come up to
it. The Sultan then turned to Aladdin's mother, saying: "Good woman, a
Sultan must remember his promises, and I will remember mine, but your
son must first send me forty basins of gold brimful of jewels, carried
by forty black slaves, led by as many white ones, splendidly dressed.
Tell him that I await his answer." The mother of Aladdin bowed low and
went home, thinking all was lost. She gave Aladdin the message, adding:
"He may wait long enough for your answer!" "Not so long, mother, as you
think," her son replied. "I would do a great deal more than that for the
Princess." He summoned the genie, and in a few moments the eighty slaves
arrived, and filled up the small house and garden. Aladdin made them
set out to the palace, two and two, followed by his mother. They were
so richly dressed, with such splendid jewels in their girdles, that
everyone crowded to see them and the basins of gold they carried on
their heads. They entered the palace, and, after kneeling before the
Sultan, stood in a half-circle round the throne with their arms crossed,
while Aladdin's mother presented them to the Sultan. He hesitated no
longer, but said: "Good woman, return and tell your son that I wait for
him with open arms." She lost no time in telling Aladdin, bidding him
make haste. But Aladdin first called the genie. "I want a scented bath,"
he said, "a richly embroidered habit, a horse surpassing the Sultan's,
and twenty slaves to attend me. Besides this, six slaves, beautifully
dressed, to wait on my mother; and lastly, ten thousand pieces of gold
in ten purses." No sooner said than done. Aladdin mounted his horse and
passed through the streets, the slaves strewing gold as they went. Those
who had played with him in his childhood knew him not, he had grown so
handsome. When the Sultan saw him he came down from his throne, embraced
him, and led him into a hall where a feast was spread, intending to
marry him to the Princess that very day. But Aladdin refused, saying, "I
must build a palace fit for her," and took his leave. Once home, he said
to the genie: "Build me a palace of the finest marble, set with jasper,
agate, and other precious stones. In the middle you shall build me a
large hall with a dome, its four walls of massy gold and silver, each
having six windows, whose lattices, all except one which is to be left
unfinished, must be set with diamonds and rubies. There must be stables
and horses and grooms and slaves; go and see about it!"

The palace was finished by the next day, and the genie carried him there
and showed him all his orders faithfully carried out, even to the laying
of a velvet carpet from Aladdin's palace to the Sultan's. Aladdin's
mother then dressed herself carefully, and walked to the palace with her
slaves, while he followed her on horseback. The Sultan sent musicians
with trumpets and cymbals to meet them, so that the air resounded with
music and cheers. She was taken to the Princess, who saluted her and
treated her with great honor. At night the Princess said good-by to her
father, and set out on the carpet for Aladdin's palace, with his mother
at her side, and followed by the hundred slaves. She was charmed at the
sight of Aladdin, who ran to receive her. "Princess," he said, "blame
your beauty for my boldness if I have displeased you." She told him
that, having seen him, she willingly obeyed her father in this matter.
After the wedding had taken place Aladdin led her into the hall, where a
feast was spread, and she supped with him, after which they danced till
midnight. Next day Aladdin invited the Sultan to see the palace. On
entering the hall with the four-and-twenty windows, with their rubies,
diamonds, and emeralds, he cried: "It is a world's wonder! There is only
one thing that surprises me. Was it by accident that one window was
left unfinished?" "No, sir, by design," returned Aladdin. "I wished
your Majesty to have the glory of finishing this palace." The Sultan was
pleased, and sent for the best jewelers in the city. He showed them
the unfinished window, and bade them fit it up like the others. "Sir,"
replied their spokesman, "we cannot find jewels enough." The Sultan
had his own fetched, which they soon used, but to no purpose, for in
a month's time the work was not half done. Aladdin, knowing that their
task was vain, bade them undo their work and carry the jewels back, and
the genie finished the window at his command. The Sultan was surprised
to receive his jewels again, and visited Aladdin, who showed him the
window finished. The Sultan embraced him, the envious Vizier meanwhile
hinting that it was the work of enchantment.

Aladdin had won the hearts of the people by his gentle bearing. He was
made captain of the Sultan's armies, and won several battles for him,
but remained modest and courteous as before, and lived thus in peace and
content for several years.

But far away in Africa the magician remembered Aladdin, and by his magic
arts discovered that Aladdin, instead of perishing miserably in the
cave, had escaped, and had married a princess, with whom he was living
in great honor and wealth. He knew that the poor tailor's son could only
have accomplished this by means of the lamp, and traveled night and day
until he reached the capital of China, bent on Aladdin's ruin. As he
passed through the town he heard people talking everywhere about a
marvellous palace. "Forgive my ignorance," he asked, "what is this
palace you speak Of?" "Have you not heard of Prince Aladdin's palace,"
was the reply, "the greatest wonder of the world? I will direct you
if you have a mind to see it." The magician thanked him who spoke, and
having seen the palace, knew that it had been raised by the Genie of the
Lamp, and became half mad with rage. He determined to get hold of the
lamp, and again plunge Aladdin into the deepest poverty.

Unluckily, Aladdin had gone a-hunting for eight days, which gave the
magician plenty of time. He bought a dozen copper lamps, put them into a
basket, and went to the palace, crying: "New lamps for old!" followed
by a jeering crowd. The Princess, sitting in the hall of four-and-twenty
windows, sent a slave to find out what the noise was about, who came
back laughing, so that the Princess scolded her. "Madam," replied the
slave, "who can help laughing to see an old fool offering to exchange
fine new lamps for old ones?" Another slave, hearing this, said: "There
is an old one on the cornice there which he can have." Now this was the
magic lamp, which Aladdin had left there, as he could not take it out
hunting with him. The Princess, not knowing its value, laughingly
bade the slave take it and make the exchange. She went and said to the
magician: "Give me a new lamp for this." He snatched it and bade the
slave take her choice, amid the jeers of the crowd. Little he cared, but
left off crying his lamps, and went out of the city gates to a lonely
place, where he remained till nightfall, when he pulled out the lamp
and rubbed it. The genie appeared, and at the magician's command carried
him, together with the palace and the Princess in it, to a lonely place
in Africa.

Next morning the Sultan looked out of the window toward Aladdin's palace
and rubbed his eyes, for it was gone. He sent for the Vizier and asked
what had become of the palace. The Vizier looked out too, and was lost
in astonishment. He again put it down to enchantment, and this time the
Sultan believed him, and sent thirty men on horseback to fetch Aladdin
in chains. They met him riding home, bound him, and forced him to go
with them on foot. The people, however, who loved him, followed, armed,
to see that he came to no harm. He was carried before the Sultan,
who ordered the executioner to cut off his head. The executioner made
Aladdin kneel down, bandaged his eyes, and raised his scimitar to
strike. At that instant the Vizier, who saw that the crowd had forced
their way into the courtyard and were scaling the walls to rescue
Aladdin, called to the executioner to stay his hand. The people, indeed,
looked so threatening that the Sultan gave way and ordered Aladdin to be
unbound, and pardoned him in the sight of the crowd. Aladdin now
begged to know what he had done. "False wretch!" said the Sultan, "come
thither," and showed him from the window the place where his palace had
stood. Aladdin was so amazed that he could not say a word. "Where is my
palace and my daughter?" demanded the Sultan. "For the first I am not so
deeply concerned, but my daughter I must have, and you must find her
or lose your head." Aladdin begged for forty days in which to find her,
promising, if he failed, to return and suffer death at the Sultan's
pleasure. His prayer was granted, and he went forth sadly from the
Sultan's presence. For three days he wandered about like a madman,
asking everyone what had become of his palace, but they only laughed and
pitied him. He came to the banks of a river, and knelt down to say his
prayers before throwing himself in. In so doing he rubbed the magic ring
he still wore. The genie he had seen in the cave appeared, and asked his
will. "Save my life, genie," said Aladdin, "bring my palace back." "That
is not in my power," said the genie; "I am only the Slave of the Ring;
you must ask him of the lamp." "Even so," said Aladdin, "but thou canst
take me to the palace, and set me down under my dear wife's window." He
at once found himself in Africa, under the window of the Princess, and
fell asleep out of sheer weariness.

He was awakened by the singing of the birds, and his heart was lighter.
He saw plainly that all his misfortunes were owing to the loss of the
lamp, and vainly wondered who had robbed him of it.

That morning the Princess rose earlier than she had done since she had
been carried into Africa by the magician, whose company she was forced
to endure once a day. She, however, treated him so harshly that he dared
not live there altogether. As she was dressing, one of her women looked
out and saw Aladdin. The Princess ran and opened the window, and at the
noise she made Aladdin looked up. She called to him to come to her, and
great was the joy of these lovers at seeing each other again. After he
had kissed her Aladdin said: "I beg of you, Princess, in God's name,
before we speak of anything else, for your own sake and mine, tell me
that has become of an old lamp I left on the cornice in the hall of
four-and-twenty windows, when I went a-hunting." "Alas!" she said, "I am
the innocent cause of our sorrows," and told him of the exchange of the
lamp. "Now I know," cried Aladdin, "that we have to thank the African
magician for this! Where is the lamp?" "He carries it about with him,"
said the Princess. "I know, for he pulled it out of his breast to show
me. He wishes me to break my faith with you and marry him, saying that
you were beheaded by my father's command. He is for ever speaking ill of
you but I only reply by my tears. If I persist, I doubt not but he
will use violence." Aladdin comforted her, and left her for a while.
He changed clothes with the first person he met in the town, and having
bought a certain powder, returned to the Princess, who let him in by
a little side door. "Put on your most beautiful dress," he said to her
"and receive the magician with smiles, leading him to believe that you
have forgotten me. Invite him to sup with you, and say you wish to taste
the wine of his country. He will go for some and while he is gone I will
tell you what to do." She listened carefully to Aladdin and when he left
she arrayed herself gaily for the first time since she left China. She
put on a girdle and head-dress of diamonds, and, seeing in a glass that
she was more beautiful than ever, received the magician, saying, to his
great amazement: "I have made up my mind that Aladdin is dead, and that
all my tears will not bring him back to me, so I am resolved to mourn no
more, and have therefore invited you to sup with me; but I am tired of
the wines of China, and would fain taste those of Africa." The magician
flew to his cellar, and the Princess put the powder Aladdin had given
her in her cup. When he returned she asked him to drink her health in
the wine of Africa, handing him her cup in exchange for his, as a sign
she was reconciled to him. Before drinking the magician made her a
speech in praise of her beauty, but the Princess cut him short, saying:
"Let us drink first, and you shall say what you will afterward." She set
her cup to her lips and kept it there, while the magician drained his to
the dregs and fell back lifeless. The Princess then opened the door to
Aladdin, and flung her arms round his neck; but Aladdin put her away,
bidding her leave him, as he had more to do. He then went to the dead
magician, took the lamp out of his vest, and bade the genie carry the
palace and all in it back to China. This was done, and the Princess in
her chamber only felt two little shocks, and little thought she was at
home again.

The Sultan, who was sitting in his closet, mourning for his lost
daughter, happened to look up, and rubbed his eyes, for there stood the
palace as before! He hastened thither, and Aladdin received him in the
hall of the four-and-twenty windows, with the Princess at his side.
Aladdin told him what had happened, and showed him the dead body of the
magician, that he might believe. A ten days' feast was proclaimed, and
it seemed as if Aladdin might now live the rest of his life in peace;
but it was not to be.

The African magician had a younger brother, who was, if possible, more
wicked and more cunning than himself. He traveled to China to avenge his
brother's death, and went to visit a pious woman called Fatima, thinking
she might be of use to him. He entered her cell and clapped a dagger to
her breast, telling her to rise and do his bidding on pain of death. He
changed clothes with her, colored his face like hers, put on her veil,
and murdered her, that she might tell no tales. Then he went toward the
palace of Aladdin, and all the people, thinking he was the holy woman,
gathered round him, kissing his hands and begging his blessing. When
he got to the palace there was such a noise going on round him that
the Princess bade her slave look out of the window and ask what was the
matter. The slave said it was the holy woman, curing people by her touch
of their ailments, whereupon the Princess, who had long desired to see
Fatima, sent for her. On coming to the Princess the magician offered up
a prayer for her health and prosperity. When he had done the Princess
made him sit by her, and begged him to stay with her always. The false
Fatima, who wished for nothing better, consented, but kept his veil down
for fear of discovery. The Princess showed him the hall, and asked him
what he thought of it. "It is truly beautiful," said the false Fatima.
"In my mind it wants but one thing." "And what is that?" said the
Princess. "If only a roc's egg," replied he, "were hung up from the
middle of this dome, it would be the wonder of the world."

After this the Princess could think of nothing but the roc's egg, and
when Aladdin returned from hunting he found her in a very ill humor. He
begged to know what was amiss, and she told him that all her pleasure in
the hall was spoiled for the want of a roc's egg hanging from the dome.
"If that is all," replied Aladdin, "you shall soon be happy." He left
her and rubbed the lamp, and when the genie appeared commanded him to
bring a roc's egg. The genie gave such a loud and terrible shriek that
the hall shook. "Wretch!" he cried, "is it not enough that I have done
everything for you, but you must command me to bring my master and hang
him up in the midst of this dome? You and your wife and your palace
deserve to be burnt to ashes, but that this request does not come from
you, but from the brother of the African magician, whom you destroyed.
He is now in your palace disguised as the holy woman--whom he murdered.
He it was who put that wish into your wife's head. Take care of
yourself, for he means to kill you." So saying, the genie disappeared.

Aladdin went back to the Princess, saying his head ached, and requesting
that the holy Fatima should be fetched to lay her hands on it. But when
the magician came near, Aladdin, seizing his dagger, pierced him to the
heart. "What have you done?" cried the Princess. "You have killed the
holy woman!" "Not so," replied Aladdin, "but a wicked magician," and
told her of how she had been deceived.

After this Aladdin and his wife lived in peace. He succeeded the Sultan
when he died, and reigned for many years, leaving behind him a long line
of kings.(1)


(1) Arabian Nights.




THE TALE OF A YOUTH WHO SET OUT TO LEARN WHAT FEAR WAS


A father had two sons, of whom the eldest was clever and bright, and
always knew what he was about; but the youngest was stupid, and
couldn't learn or understand anything. So much so that those who saw him
exclaimed: "What a burden he'll be to his father!" Now when there was
anything to be done, the eldest had always to do it; but if something
was required later or in the night-time, and the way led through the
churchyard or some such ghostly place, he always replied: "Oh! no,
father: nothing will induce me to go there, it makes me shudder!" for
he was afraid. Or, when they sat of an evening around the fire telling
stories which made one's flesh creep, the listeners sometimes said:
"Oh! it makes one shudder," the youngest sat in a corner, heard the
exclamation, and could not understand what it meant. "They are always
saying it makes one shudder! it makes one shudder! Nothing makes me
shudder. It's probably an art quite beyond me."

Now it happened that his father said to him one day: "Hearken, you there
in the corner; you are growing big and strong, and you must learn to
earn your own bread. Look at your brother, what pains he takes; but
all the money I've spent on your education is thrown away." "My dear
father," he replied, "I will gladly learn--in fact, if it were possible
I should like to learn to shudder; I don't understand that a bit yet."
The eldest laughed when he heard this, and thought to himself: "Good
heavens! what a ninny my brother is! he'll never come to any good;
as the twig is bent, so is the tree inclined." The father sighed, and
answered him: "You'll soon learn to shudder; but that won't help you to
make a living."

Shortly after this, when the sexton came to pay them a visit, the father
broke out to him, and told him what a bad hand his youngest son was at
everything: he knew nothing and learned nothing. "Only think! when I
asked him how he purposed gaining a livelihood, he actually asked to be
taught to shudder." "If that's all he wants," said the sexton, "I can
teach him that; just you send him to me, I'll soon polish him up." The
father was quite pleased with the proposal, because he thought: "It will
be a good discipline for the youth." And so the sexton took him into his
house, and his duty was to toll the bell. After a few days he woke him
at midnight, and bade him rise and climb into the tower and toll.
"Now, my friend, I'll teach you to shudder," thought he. He stole forth
secretly in front, and when the youth was up above, and had turned
round to grasp the bell-rope, he saw, standing opposite the hole of the
belfry, a white figure. "Who's there?" he called out, but the figure
gave no answer, and neither stirred nor moved. "Answer," cried the
youth, "or begone; you have no business here at this hour of the night."
But the sexton remained motionless, so that the youth might think that
it was a ghost. The youth called out the second time: "What do you want
here? Speak if you are an honest fellow, or I'll knock you down the
stairs." The sexton thought: "He can't mean that in earnest," so gave
forth no sound, and stood as though he were made of stone. Then the
youth shouted out to him the third time, and as that too had no effect,
he made a dash at the spectre and knocked it down the stairs, so that it
fell about ten steps and remained lying in a corner. Thereupon he tolled
the bell, went home to bed without saying a word, and fell asleep. The
sexton's wife waited a long time for her husband, but he never appeared.
At last she became anxious, and woke the youth, and asked: "Don't you
know where my husband is? He went up to the tower in front of you."
"No," answered the youth; "but someone stood on the stairs up there just
opposite the trap-door in the belfry, and because he wouldn't answer me,
or go away, I took him for a rogue and knocked him down. You'd better go
and see if it was he; I should be much distressed if it were." The wife
ran and found her husband who was lying groaning in a corner, with his
leg broken.

She carried him down, and then hurried with loud protestations to the
youth's father. "Your son has been the cause of a pretty misfortune,"
she cried; "he threw my husband downstairs so that he broke his leg.
Take the good-for-nothing wretch out of our house." The father was
horrified, hurried to the youth, and gave him a scolding.

"What unholy pranks are these? The evil one must have put them into your
head." "Father," he replied, "only listen to me; I am quite guiltless.
He stood there in the night, like one who meant harm. I didn't know who
it was, and warned him three times to speak or begone." "Oh!" groaned
the father, "you'll bring me nothing but misfortune; get out of my
sight, I won't have anything more to do with you." "Yes, father,
willingly; only wait till daylight, then I'll set out and learn to
shudder, and in that way I shall be master of an art which will gain me
a living." "Learn what you will," said the father, "it's all one to me.
Here are fifty dollars for you, set forth into the wide world with them;
but see you tell no one where you come from or who your father is, for
I am ashamed of you." "Yes, father, whatever you wish; and if that's all
you ask, I can easily keep it in mind."

When day broke the youth put the fifty dollars into his pocket, set out
on the hard high road, and kept muttering to himself: "If I could only
shudder! if I could only shudder!" Just at this moment a man came by who
heard the youth speaking to himself, and when they had gone on a bit and
were in sight of the gallows the man said to him: "Look! there is the
tree where seven people have been hanged, and are now learning to fly;
sit down under it and wait till nightfall, and then you'll pretty soon
learn to shudder." "If that's all I have to do," answered the youth,
"it's easily done; but if I learn to shudder so quickly, then you shall
have my fifty dollars. Just come back to me to-morrow morning early."
Then the youth went to the gallows-tree and sat down underneath it, and
waited for the evening; and because he felt cold he lit himself a fire.
But at midnight it got so chill that in spite of the fire he couldn't
keep warm. And as the wind blew the corpses one against the other,
tossing them to and fro, he thought to himself: "If you are perishing
down here by the fire, how those poor things up there must be shaking
and shivering!" And because he had a tender heart, he put up a ladder,
which he climbed unhooked one body after the other, and took down all
the seven. Then he stirred the fire, blew it up, and placed them all
round in a circle, that they might warm themselves. But they sat there
and did not move, and the fire caught their clothes. Then he spoke:
"Take care, or I'll hang you up again." But the dead men did not hear
and let their rags go on burning. Then he got angry, and said: "If you
aren't careful yourselves, then I can't help you, and I don't mean to
burn with you"; and he hung them up again in a row. Then he sat down at
his fire and fell asleep. On the following morning the man came to him,
and, wishing to get his fifty dollars, said: "Now you know what it is to
shudder." "No," he answered, "how should I? Those fellows up there never
opened their mouths, and were so stupid that they let those few old
tatters they have on their bodies burn." Then the man saw he wouldn't
get his fifty dollars that day, and went off, saying: "Well, I'm blessed
if I ever met such a person in my life before."

The youth went too on his way, and began to murmur to himself: "Oh! if I
could only shudder! if I could only shudder!" A carrier who was walking
behind him heard these words, and asked him: "Who are you" "I don't
know," said the youth. "Where do you hail from?" "I don't know." "Who's
your father?" "I mayn't say." "What are you constantly muttering to
yourself?" "Oh!" said the youth, "I would give worlds to shudder, but no
one can teach me." "Stuff and nonsense!" spoke the carrier; "come along
with me, and I'll soon put that right." The youth went with the carrier,
and in the evening they reached an inn, where they were to spend the
night. Then, just as he was entering the room, he said again, quite
aloud: "Oh! if I could only shudder! if I could only shudder!" The
landlord, who heard this, laughed and said: "If that's what you're
sighing for, you shall be given every opportunity here." "Oh! hold your
tongue!" said the landlord's wife; "so many people have paid for their
curiosity with their lives, it were a thousand pities if those beautiful
eyes were never again to behold daylight." But the youth said: "No
matter how difficult, I insist on learning it; why, that's what I've set
out to do." He left the landlord no peace till he told him that in the
neighborhood stood a haunted castle, where one could easily learn to
shudder if one only kept watch in it for three nights. The King had
promised the man who dared to do this thing his daughter as wife, and
she was the most beautiful maiden under the sun. There was also much
treasure hid in the castle, guarded by evil spirits, which would then
be free, and was sufficient to make a poor man more than rich. Many had
already gone in, but so far none had ever come out again. So the youth
went to the King and spoke: "If I were allowed, I should much like
to watch for three nights in the castle." The King looked at him, and
because he pleased him, he said: "You can ask for three things, none of
them living, and those you may take with you into the castle." Then he
answered: "Well, I shall beg for a fire, a turning lathe, and a carving
bench with the knife attached."

On the following day the King had everything put into the castle; and
when night drew on the youth took up his position there, lit a bright
fire in one of the rooms, placed the carving bench with the knife close
to it, and sat himself down on the turning lathe. "Oh! if I could only
shudder!" he said: "but I sha'n't learn it here either." Toward midnight
he wanted to make up the fire, and as he was blowing up a blaze he heard
a shriek from a corner. "Ou, miou! how cold we are!" "You fools!" he
cried; "why do you scream? If you are cold, come and sit at the fire and
warm yourselves." And as he spoke two huge black cats sprang fiercely
forward and sat down, one on each side of him, and gazed wildly at him
with their fiery eyes. After a time, when they had warmed themselves,
they said: "Friend, shall we play a little game of cards?" "Why not?" he
replied; "but first let me see your paws." Then they stretched out their
claws. "Ha!" said he; "what long nails you've got! Wait a minute: I must
first cut them off." Thereupon he seized them by the scruff of their
necks, lifted them on to the carving bench, and screwed down their paws
firmly. "After watching you narrowly," said he, "I no longer feel any
desire to play cards with you"; and with these words he struck them dead
and threw them out into the water. But when he had thus sent the two of
them to their final rest, and was again about to sit down at the fire,
out of every nook and corner came forth black cats and black dogs with
fiery chains in such swarms that he couldn't possibly get away from
them. They yelled in the most ghastly manner, jumped upon his fire,
scattered it all, and tried to put it out. He looked on quietly for
a time, but when it got beyond a joke he seized his carving-knife and
called out: "Be off, you rabble rout!" and let fly at them. Some of them
fled away, and the others he struck dead and threw them out into the
pond below. When he returned he blew up the sparks of the fire once
more, and warmed himself. And as he sat thus his eyes refused to keep
open any longer, and a desire to sleep stole over him. Then he looked
around him and beheld in the corner a large bed. "The very thing," he
said, and laid himself down in it. But when he wished to close his
eyes the bed began to move by itself, and ran all round the castle.
"Capital," he said, "only a little quicker." Then the bed sped on as if
drawn by six horses, over thresholds and stairs, up this way and down
that. All of a sudden--crash, crash! with a bound it turned over, upside
down, and lay like a mountain on the top of him. But he tossed the
blankets and pillows in the air, emerged from underneath, and said: "Now
anyone who has the fancy for it may go a drive," lay down at his fire,
and slept till daylight. In the morning the King came, and when he
beheld him lying on the ground he imagined the ghosts had been too much
for him, and that he was dead. Then he said: "What a pity! and such a
fine fellow he was." The youth heard this, got up, and said: "It's not
come to that yet." Then the King was astonished, but very glad, and
asked how it had fared with him. "First-rate," he answered; "and now
I've survived the one night, I shall get through the other two also."
The landlord, when he went to him, opened his eyes wide, and said:
"Well, I never thought to see you alive again. Have you learned now what
shuddering is?" "No," he replied, "it's quite hopeless; if someone could
only tell me how to!"

The second night he went up again to the old castle, sat down at the
fire, and began his old refrain: "If I could only shudder!" As midnight
approached, a noise and din broke out, at first gentle, but gradually
increasing; then all was quiet for a minute, and at length, with a loud
scream, half of a man dropped down the chimney and fell before him. "Hi,
up there!" shouted he; "there's another half wanted down here, that's
not enough"; then the din commenced once more, there was a shrieking
and a yelling, and then the other half fell down. "Wait a bit," he said;
"I'll stir up the fire for you." When he had done this and again looked
around, the two pieces had united, and a horrible-looking man sat on his
seat. "Come," said the youth, "I didn't bargain for that, the seat is
mine." The man tried to shove him away, but the youth wouldn't allow
it for a moment, and, pushing him off by force, sat down in his place
again. Then more men dropped down, one after the other, who fetching
nine skeleton legs and two skulls, put them up and played ninepins with
them. The youth thought he would like to play too, and said: "Look here;
do you mind my joining the game?" "No, not if you have money." "I've
money enough," he replied, "but your balls aren't round enough." Then
he took the skulls, placed them on his lathe, and turned them till they
were round. "Now they'll roll along better," said he, "and houp-la! now
the fun begins." He played with them and lost some of his money, but
when twelve struck everything vanished before his eyes. He lay down and
slept peacefully. The next morning the King came, anxious for news. "How
have you got on this time?" he asked. "I played ninepins," he answered,
"and lost a few pence." "Didn't you shudder then?" "No such luck," said
he; "I made myself merry. Oh! if I only knew what it was to shudder!"

On the third night he sat down again on his bench, and said, in the most
desponding way: "If I could only shudder!" When it got late, six big men
came in carrying a coffin. Then he cried: "Ha! ha! that's most likely
my little cousin who only died a few days ago"; and beckoning with his
finger he called out: "Come, my small cousin, come." They placed the
coffin on the ground, and he approached it and took off the cover. In
it lay a dead man. He felt his face, and it was cold as ice. "Wait," he
said "I'll heat you up a bit," went to the fire, warmed his hand, and
laid it on the man's face, but the dead remained cold. Then he lifted
him out, sat down at the fire, laid him on his knee, and rubbed his arms
that the blood should circulate again. When that too had no effect it
occurred to him that if two people lay together in bed they warmed each
other; so he put him into the bed, covered him up, and lay down beside
him; after a time the corpse became warm and began to move. Then the
youth said: "Now, my little cousin, what would have happened if I
hadn't warmed you?" But the dead man rose up and cried out: "Now I
will strangle you." "What!" said he, "is that all the thanks I get? You
should be put straight back into your coffin," lifted him up, threw him
in, and closed the lid. Then the six men came and carried him out again.
"I simply can't shudder," he said, "and it's clear I sha'n't learn it in
a lifetime here."

Then a man entered, of more than ordinary size and of a very fearful
appearance; but he was old and had a white beard. "Oh! you miserable
creature, now you will soon know what it is to shudder," he cried, "for
you must die." "Not so quickly," answered the youth. "If I am to die,
you must catch me first." "I shall soon lay hold of you," spoke the
monster. "Gently, gently, don't boast too much, I'm as strong as you,
and stronger too." "We'll soon see," said the old man; "if you are
stronger than I then I'll let you off; come, let's have a try." Then he
led him through some dark passages to a forge, and grasping an axe he
drove one of the anvils with a blow into the earth. "I can do better
than that," cried the youth, and went to the other anvil. The old man
drew near him in order to watch closely, and his white beard hung right
down. The youth seized the axe, cleft the anvil open, and jammed in the
old man's beard. "Now I have you," said the youth; "this time it's your
turn to die." Then he seized an iron rod and belabored the old man till
he, whimpering, begged him to leave off, and he would give him great
riches. The youth drew out the axe and let him go. The old man led him
back to the castle and showed him in a cellar three chests of gold. "One
of these," said he, "belongs to the poor, one to the King, and the
third is yours." At that moment twelve struck, and the spirit vanished,
leaving the youth alone in the dark. "I'll surely be able to find a way
out," said he, and groping about he at length found his way back to the
room, and fell asleep at his fire. The next morning the King came, and
said: "Well, now you've surely learned to shudder?" "No," he answered;
"what can it be? My dead cousin was here, and an old bearded man came,
who showed me heaps of money down below there, but what shuddering is no
one has told me." Then the King spoke: "You have freed the castle from
its curse, and you shall marry my daughter." "That's all charming," he
said; "but I still don't know what it is to shudder."

Then the gold was brought up, and the wedding was celebrated, but the
young King, though he loved his wife dearly, and though he was very
happy, still kept on saying: "If I could only shudder! if I could only
shudder!" At last he reduced her to despair. Then her maid said: "I'll
help you; we'll soon make him shudder." So she went out to the stream
that flowed through the garden, and had a pail full of little gudgeons
brought to her. At night, when the young King was asleep, his wife had
to pull the clothes off him, and pour the pail full of little gudgeons
over him, so that the little fish swam all about him. Then he awoke and
cried out: "Oh! how I shudder, how I shudder, dear wife! Yes, now I know
what shuddering is."(1)


(1) Grimm.




RUMPELSTILTZKIN


There was once upon a time a poor miller who had a very beautiful
daughter. Now it happened one day that he had an audience with the King,
and in order to appear a person of some importance he told him that
he had a daughter who could spin straw into gold. "Now that's a talent
worth having," said the King to the miller; "if your daughter is as
clever as you say, bring her to my palace to-morrow, and I'll put her to
the test." When the girl was brought to him he led her into a room full
of straw, gave her a spinning-wheel and spindle, and said: "Now set to
work and spin all night till early dawn, and if by that time you haven't
spun the straw into gold you shall die." Then he closed the door behind
him and left her alone inside.

So the poor miller's daughter sat down, and didn't know what in the
world she was to do. She hadn't the least idea of how to spin straw into
gold, and became at last so miserable that she began to cry.
Suddenly the door opened, and in stepped a tiny little man and said:
"Good-evening, Miss Miller-maid; why are you crying so bitterly?" "Oh!"
answered the girl, "I have to spin straw into gold, and haven't a notion
how it's done." "What will you give me if I spin it for you?" asked
the manikin. "My necklace," replied the girl. The little man took the
necklace, sat himself down at the wheel, and whir, whir, whir, the wheel
went round three times, and the bobbin was full. Then he put on another,
and whir, whir, whir, the wheel went round three times, and the second
too was full; and so it went on till the morning, when all the straw
was spun away, and all the bobbins were full of gold. As soon as the sun
rose the King came, and when he perceived the gold he was astonished and
delighted, but his heart only lusted more than ever after the precious
metal. He had the miller's daughter put into another room full of straw,
much bigger than the first, and bade her, if she valued her life, spin
it all into gold before the following morning. The girl didn't know what
to do, and began to cry; then the door opened as before, and the tiny
little man appeared and said: "What'll you give me if I spin the straw
into gold for you?" "The ring from my finger," answered the girl. The
manikin took the ring, and whir! round went the spinning-wheel again,
and when morning broke he had spun all the straw into glittering gold.
The King was pleased beyond measure at the sights but his greed for gold
was still not satisfied, and he had the miller's daughter brought into a
yet bigger room full of straw, and said: "You must spin all this away
in the night; but if you succeed this time you shall become my wife."
"She's only a miller's daughter, it's true," he thought; "but I couldn't
find a richer wife if I were to search the whole world over." When the
girl was alone the little man appeared for the third time, and said:
"What'll you give me if I spin the straw for you once again?" "I've
nothing more to give," answered the girl. "Then promise me when you
are Queen to give me your first child." "Who knows what may not happen
before that?" thought the miller's daughter; and besides, she saw no
other way out of it, so she promised the manikin what he demanded, and
he set to work once more and spun the straw into gold. When the
King came in the morning, and found everything as he had desired, he
straightway made her his wife, and the miller's daughter became a queen.

When a year had passed a beautiful son was born to her, and she thought
no more of the little man, till all of a sudden one day he stepped into
her room and said: "Now give me what you promised." The Queen was in a
great state, and offered the little man all the riches in her kingdom if
he would only leave her the child. But the manikin said: "No, a living
creature is dearer to me than all the treasures in the world." Then the
Queen began to cry and sob so bitterly that the little man was sorry for
her, and said: "I'll give you three days to guess my name, and if you
find it out in that time you may keep your child."

Then the Queen pondered the whole night over all the names she had ever
heard, and sent a messenger to scour the land, and to pick up far and
near any names he could come across. When the little man arrived on the
following day she began with Kasper, Melchior, Belshazzar, and all the
other names she knew, in a string, but at each one the manikin called
out: "That's not my name." The next day she sent to inquire the names
of all the people in the neighborhood, and had a long list of the
most uncommon and extraordinary for the little man when he made
his appearance. "Is your name, perhaps, Sheepshanks Cruickshanks,
Spindleshanks?" but he always replied: "That's not my name." On the
third day the messenger returned and announced: "I have not been able to
find any new names, but as I came upon a high hill round the corner of
the wood, where the foxes and hares bid each other good-night, I saw
a little house, and in front of the house burned a fire, and round
the fire sprang the most grotesque little man, hopping on one leg and
crying:

  "To-morrow I brew, to-day I bake,
    And then the child away I'll take;
    For little deems my royal dame
    That Rumpelstiltzkin is my name!"


You can imagine the Queen's delight at hearing the name, and when the
little man stepped in shortly afterward and asked: "Now, my lady Queen,
what's my name?" she asked first: "Is your name Conrad?" "No." "Is your
name Harry?" "No." "Is your name perhaps, Rumpelstiltzkin?" "Some demon
has told you that! some demon has told you that!" screamed the little
man, and in his rage drove his right foot so far into the ground that it
sank in up to his waist; then in a passion he seized the left foot with
both hands and tore himself in two.(1)


(1) Grimm.




BEAUTY AND THE BEAST


Once upon a time, in a very far-off country, there lived a merchant who
had been so fortunate in all his undertakings that he was enormously
rich. As he had, however, six sons and six daughters, he found that his
money was not too much to let them all have everything they fancied, as
they were accustomed to do.

But one day a most unexpected misfortune befell them. Their house
caught fire and was speedily burnt to the ground, with all the splendid
furniture, the books, pictures, gold, silver, and precious goods it
contained; and this was only the beginning of their troubles. Their
father, who had until this moment prospered in all ways, suddenly lost
every ship he had upon the sea, either by dint of pirates, shipwreck,
or fire. Then he heard that his clerks in distant countries, whom he
trusted entirely, had proved unfaithful; and at last from great wealth
he fell into the direst poverty.

All that he had left was a little house in a desolate place at least a
hundred leagues from the town in which he had lived, and to this he was
forced to retreat with his children, who were in despair at the idea of
leading such a different life. Indeed, the daughters at first hoped
that their friends, who had been so numerous while they were rich, would
insist on their staying in their houses now they no longer possessed
one. But they soon found that they were left alone, and that their
former friends even attributed their misfortunes to their own
extravagance, and showed no intention of offering them any help. So
nothing was left for them but to take their departure to the cottage,
which stood in the midst of a dark forest, and seemed to be the most
dismal place upon the face of the earth. As they were too poor to have
any servants, the girls had to work hard, like peasants, and the sons,
for their part, cultivated the fields to earn their living. Roughly
clothed, and living in the simplest way, the girls regretted unceasingly
the luxuries and amusements of their former life; only the youngest
tried to be brave and cheerful. She had been as sad as anyone when
misfortune overtook her father, but, soon recovering her natural gaiety,
she set to work to make the best of things, to amuse her father and
brothers as well as she could, and to try to persuade her sisters to
join her in dancing and singing. But they would do nothing of the sort,
and, because she was not as doleful as themselves, they declared that
this miserable life was all she was fit for. But she was really far
prettier and cleverer than they were; indeed, she was so lovely that she
was always called Beauty. After two years, when they were all beginning
to get used to their new life, something happened to disturb their
tranquillity. Their father received the news that one of his ships,
which he had believed to be lost, had come safely into port with a rich
cargo. All the sons and daughters at once thought that their poverty
was at an end, and wanted to set out directly for the town; but their
father, who was more prudent, begged them to wait a little, and, though
it was harvest time, and he could ill be spared, determined to go
himself first, to make inquiries. Only the youngest daughter had any
doubt but that they would soon again be as rich as they were before, or
at least rich enough to live comfortably in some town where they would
find amusement and gay companions once more. So they all loaded their
father with commissions for jewels and dresses which it would have taken
a fortune to buy; only Beauty, feeling sure that it was of no use, did
not ask for anything. Her father, noticing her silence, said: "And what
shall I bring for you, Beauty?"

"The only thing I wish for is to see you come home safely," she
answered.

But this only vexed her sisters, who fancied she was blaming them for
having asked for such costly things. Her father, however, was pleased,
but as he thought that at her age she certainly ought to like pretty
presents, he told her to choose something.

"Well, dear father," she said, "as you insist upon it, I beg that you
will bring me a rose. I have not seen one since we came here, and I love
them so much."

So the merchant set out and reached the town as quickly as possible, but
only to find that his former companions, believing him to be dead, had
divided between them the goods which the ship had brought; and after
six months of trouble and expense he found himself as poor as when he
started, having been able to recover only just enough to pay the cost of
his journey. To make matters worse, he was obliged to leave the town
in the most terrible weather, so that by the time he was within a few
leagues of his home he was almost exhausted with cold and fatigue.
Though he knew it would take some hours to get through the forest, he
was so anxious to be at his journey's end that he resolved to go on;
but night overtook him, and the deep snow and bitter frost made it
impossible for his horse to carry him any further. Not a house was to
be seen; the only shelter he could get was the hollow trunk of a great
tree, and there he crouched all the night which seemed to him the
longest he had ever known. In spite of his weariness the howling of the
wolves kept him awake, and even when at last the day broke he was not
much better off, for the falling snow had covered up every path, and he
did not know which way to turn.

At length he made out some sort of track, and though at the beginning it
was so rough and slippery that he fell down more than once, it presently
became easier, and led him into an avenue of trees which ended in a
splendid castle. It seemed to the merchant very strange that no snow
had fallen in the avenue, which was entirely composed of orange trees,
covered with flowers and fruit. When he reached the first court of the
castle he saw before him a flight of agate steps, and went up them, and
passed through several splendidly furnished rooms. The pleasant warmth
of the air revived him, and he felt very hungry; but there seemed to be
nobody in all this vast and splendid palace whom he could ask to give
him something to eat. Deep silence reigned everywhere, and at last,
tired of roaming through empty rooms and galleries, he stopped in a room
smaller than the rest, where a clear fire was burning and a couch was
drawn up closely to it. Thinking that this must be prepared for someone
who was expected, he sat down to wait till he should come, and very soon
fell into a sweet sleep.

When his extreme hunger wakened him after several hours, he was still
alone; but a little table, upon which was a good dinner, had been drawn
up close to him, and, as he had eaten nothing for twenty-four hours, he
lost no time in beginning his meal, hoping that he might soon have an
opportunity of thanking his considerate entertainer, whoever it might
be. But no one appeared, and even after another long sleep, from which
he awoke completely refreshed, there was no sign of anybody, though a
fresh meal of dainty cakes and fruit was prepared upon the little table
at his elbow. Being naturally timid, the silence began to terrify him,
and he resolved to search once more through all the rooms; but it was of
no use. Not even a servant was to be seen; there was no sign of life in
the palace! He began to wonder what he should do, and to amuse
himself by pretending that all the treasures he saw were his own, and
considering how he would divide them among his children. Then he went
down into the garden, and though it was winter everywhere else, here the
sun shone, and the birds sang, and the flowers bloomed, and the air was
soft and sweet. The merchant, in ecstacies with all he saw and heard,
said to himself:

"All this must be meant for me. I will go this minute and bring my
children to share all these delights."

In spite of being so cold and weary when he reached the castle, he had
taken his horse to the stable and fed it. Now he thought he would saddle
it for his homeward journey, and he turned down the path which led to
the stable. This path had a hedge of roses on each side of it, and the
merchant thought he had never seen or smelt such exquisite flowers.
They reminded him of his promise to Beauty, and he stopped and had just
gathered one to take to her when he was startled by a strange noise
behind him. Turning round, he saw a frightful Beast, which seemed to be
very angry and said, in a terrible voice:

"Who told you that you might gather my roses? Was it not enough that I
allowed you to be in my palace and was kind to you? This is the way you
show your gratitude, by stealing my flowers! But your insolence shall
not go unpunished." The merchant, terrified by these furious words,
dropped the fatal rose, and, throwing himself on his knees, cried:
"Pardon me, noble sir. I am truly grateful to you for your hospitality,
which was so magnificent that I could not imagine that you would be
offended by my taking such a little thing as a rose." But the Beast's
anger was not lessened by this speech.

"You are very ready with excuses and flattery," he cried; "but that will
not save you from the death you deserve."

"Alas!" thought the merchant, "if my daughter could only know what
danger her rose has brought me into!"

And in despair he began to tell the Beast all his misfortunes, and the
reason of his journey, not forgetting to mention Beauty's request.

"A king's ransom would hardly have procured all that my other daughters
asked." he said: "but I thought that I might at least take Beauty her
rose. I beg you to forgive me, for you see I meant no harm."

The Beast considered for a moment, and then he said, in a less furious
tone:

"I will forgive you on one condition--that is, that you will give me one
of your daughters."

"Ah!" cried the merchant, "if I were cruel enough to buy my own life at
the expense of one of my children's, what excuse could I invent to bring
her here?"

"No excuse would be necessary," answered the Beast. "If she comes at all
she must come willingly. On no other condition will I have her. See if
any one of them is courageous enough, and loves you well enough to come
and save your life. You seem to be an honest man, so I will trust you to
go home. I give you a month to see if either of your daughters will come
back with you and stay here, to let you go free. If neither of them is
willing, you must come alone, after bidding them good-by for ever, for
then you will belong to me. And do not imagine that you can hide from
me, for if you fail to keep your word I will come and fetch you!" added
the Beast grimly.

The merchant accepted this proposal, though he did not really think any
of his daughters could be persuaded to come. He promised to return at
the time appointed, and then, anxious to escape from the presence of the
Beast, he asked permission to set off at once. But the Beast answered
that he could not go until next day.

"Then you will find a horse ready for you," he said. "Now go and eat
your supper, and await my orders."

The poor merchant, more dead than alive, went back to his room, where
the most delicious supper was already served on the little table which
was drawn up before a blazing fire. But he was too terrified to eat, and
only tasted a few of the dishes, for fear the Beast should be angry if
he did not obey his orders. When he had finished he heard a great noise
in the next room, which he knew meant that the Beast was coming. As he
could do nothing to escape his visit, the only thing that remained was
to seem as little afraid as possible; so when the Beast appeared and
asked roughly if he had supped well, the merchant answered humbly that
he had, thanks to his host's kindness. Then the Beast warned him to
remember their agreement, and to prepare his daughter exactly for what
she had to expect.

"Do not get up to-morrow," he added, "until you see the sun and hear
a golden bell ring. Then you will find your breakfast waiting for you
here, and the horse you are to ride will be ready in the courtyard. He
will also bring you back again when you come with your daughter a month
hence. Farewell. Take a rose to Beauty, and remember your promise!"

The merchant was only too glad when the Beast went away, and though he
could not sleep for sadness, he lay down until the sun rose. Then, after
a hasty breakfast, he went to gather Beauty's rose, and mounted his
horse, which carried him off so swiftly that in an instant he had lost
sight of the palace, and he was still wrapped in gloomy thoughts when it
stopped before the door of the cottage.

His sons and daughters, who had been very uneasy at his long absence,
rushed to meet him, eager to know the result of his journey, which,
seeing him mounted upon a splendid horse and wrapped in a rich mantle,
they supposed to be favorable. He hid the truth from them at first, only
saying sadly to Beauty as he gave her the rose:

"Here is what you asked me to bring you; you little know what it has
cost."

But this excited their curiosity so greatly that presently he told
them his adventures from beginning to end, and then they were all very
unhappy. The girls lamented loudly over their lost hopes, and the sons
declared that their father should not return to this terrible castle,
and began to make plans for killing the Beast if it should come to fetch
him. But he reminded them that he had promised to go back. Then the
girls were very angry with Beauty, and said it was all her fault, and
that if she had asked for something sensible this would never have
happened, and complained bitterly that they should have to suffer for
her folly.

Poor Beauty, much distressed, said to them:

"I have, indeed, caused this misfortune, but I assure you I did it
innocently. Who could have guessed that to ask for a rose in the middle
of summer would cause so much misery? But as I did the mischief it is
only just that I should suffer for it. I will therefore go back with my
father to keep his promise."

At first nobody would hear of this arrangement, and her father and
brothers, who loved her dearly, declared that nothing should make them
let her go; but Beauty was firm. As the time drew near she divided
all her little possessions between her sisters, and said good-by to
everything she loved, and when the fatal day came she encouraged and
cheered her father as they mounted together the horse which had brought
him back. It seemed to fly rather than gallop, but so smoothly that
Beauty was not frightened; indeed, she would have enjoyed the journey if
she had not feared what might happen to her at the end of it. Her father
still tried to persuade her to go back, but in vain. While they were
talking the night fell, and then, to their great surprise, wonderful
colored lights began to shine in all directions, and splendid fireworks
blazed out before them; all the forest was illuminated by them, and
even felt pleasantly warm, though it had been bitterly cold before. This
lasted until they reached the avenue of orange trees, where were statues
holding flaming torches, and when they got nearer to the palace they saw
that it was illuminated from the roof to the ground, and music sounded
softly from the courtyard. "The Beast must be very hungry," said Beauty,
trying to laugh, "if he makes all this rejoicing over the arrival of his
prey."

But, in spite of her anxiety, she could not help admiring all the
wonderful things she saw.

The horse stopped at the foot of the flight of steps leading to the
terrace, and when they had dismounted her father led her to the little
room he had been in before, where they found a splendid fire burning,
and the table daintily spread with a delicious supper.

The merchant knew that this was meant for them, and Beauty, who was
rather less frightened now that she had passed through so many rooms and
seen nothing of the Beast, was quite willing to begin, for her long ride
had made her very hungry. But they had hardly finished their meal when
the noise of the Beast's footsteps was heard approaching, and Beauty
clung to her father in terror, which became all the greater when she saw
how frightened he was. But when the Beast really appeared, though
she trembled at the sight of him, she made a great effort to hide her
terror, and saluted him respectfully.

This evidently pleased the Beast. After looking at her he said, in a
tone that might have struck terror into the boldest heart, though he did
not seem to be angry:

"Good-evening, old man. Good-evening, Beauty."

The merchant was too terrified to reply, but Beauty answered sweetly:
"Good-evening, Beast."

"Have you come willingly?" asked the Beast. "Will you be content to stay
here when your father goes away?"

Beauty answered bravely that she was quite prepared to stay.

"I am pleased with you," said the Beast. "As you have come of your own
accord, you may stay. As for you, old man," he added, turning to the
merchant, "at sunrise to-morrow you will take your departure. When the
bell rings get up quickly and eat your breakfast, and you will find the
same horse waiting to take you home; but remember that you must never
expect to see my palace again."

Then turning to Beauty, he said:

"Take your father into the next room, and help him to choose everything
you think your brothers and sisters would like to have. You will find
two traveling-trunks there; fill them as full as you can. It is only
just that you should send them something very precious as a remembrance
of yourself."

Then he went away, after saying, "Good-by, Beauty; good-by, old man";
and though Beauty was beginning to think with great dismay of her
father's departure, she was afraid to disobey the Beast's orders; and
they went into the next room, which had shelves and cupboards all round
it. They were greatly surprised at the riches it contained. There were
splendid dresses fit for a queen, with all the ornaments that were to
be worn with them; and when Beauty opened the cupboards she was quite
dazzled by the gorgeous jewels that lay in heaps upon every shelf. After
choosing a vast quantity, which she divided between her sisters--for she
had made a heap of the wonderful dresses for each of them--she opened
the last chest, which was full of gold.

"I think, father," she said, "that, as the gold will be more useful to
you, we had better take out the other things again, and fill the trunks
with it." So they did this; but the more they put in the more room there
seemed to be, and at last they put back all the jewels and dresses they
had taken out, and Beauty even added as many more of the jewels as she
could carry at once; and then the trunks were not too full, but they
were so heavy that an elephant could not have carried them!

"The Beast was mocking us," cried the merchant; "he must have pretended
to give us all these things, knowing that I could not carry them away."

"Let us wait and see," answered Beauty. "I cannot believe that he meant
to deceive us. All we can do is to fasten them up and leave them ready."

So they did this and returned to the little room, where, to their
astonishment, they found breakfast ready. The merchant ate his with a
good appetite, as the Beast's generosity made him believe that he might
perhaps venture to come back soon and see Beauty. But she felt sure that
her father was leaving her for ever, so she was very sad when the bell
rang sharply for the second time, and warned them that the time had come
for them to part. They went down into the courtyard, where two horses
were waiting, one loaded with the two trunks, the other for him to
ride. They were pawing the ground in their impatience to start, and the
merchant was forced to bid Beauty a hasty farewell; and as soon as he
was mounted he went off at such a pace that she lost sight of him in an
instant. Then Beauty began to cry, and wandered sadly back to her
own room. But she soon found that she was very sleepy, and as she had
nothing better to do she lay down and instantly fell asleep. And then
she dreamed that she was walking by a brook bordered with trees, and
lamenting her sad fate, when a young prince, handsomer than anyone she
had ever seen, and with a voice that went straight to her heart, came
and said to her, "Ah, Beauty! you are not so unfortunate as you suppose.
Here you will be rewarded for all you have suffered elsewhere. Your
every wish shall be gratified. Only try to find me out, no matter how I
may be disguised, as I love you dearly, and in making me happy you will
find your own happiness. Be as true-hearted as you are beautiful, and we
shall have nothing left to wish for."

"What can I do, Prince, to make you happy?" said Beauty.

"Only be grateful," he answered, "and do not trust too much to your
eyes. And, above all, do not desert me until you have saved me from my
cruel misery."

After this she thought she found herself in a room with a stately and
beautiful lady, who said to her:

"Dear Beauty, try not to regret all you have left behind you, for you
are destined to a better fate. Only do not let yourself be deceived by
appearances."

Beauty found her dreams so interesting that she was in no hurry to
awake, but presently the clock roused her by calling her name softly
twelve times, and then she got up and found her dressing-table set
out with everything she could possibly want; and when her toilet was
finished she found dinner was waiting in the room next to hers. But
dinner does not take very long when you are all by yourself, and very
soon she sat down cosily in the corner of a sofa, and began to think
about the charming Prince she had seen in her dream.

"He said I could make him happy," said Beauty to herself.

"It seems, then, that this horrible Beast keeps him a prisoner. How
can I set him free? I wonder why they both told me not to trust to
appearances? I don't understand it. But, after all, it was only a
dream, so why should I trouble myself about it? I had better go and find
something to do to amuse myself."

So she got up and began to explore some of the many rooms of the palace.

The first she entered was lined with mirrors, and Beauty saw herself
reflected on every side, and thought she had never seen such a charming
room. Then a bracelet which was hanging from a chandelier caught her
eye, and on taking it down she was greatly surprised to find that it
held a portrait of her unknown admirer, just as she had seen him in her
dream. With great delight she slipped the bracelet on her arm, and went
on into a gallery of pictures, where she soon found a portrait of the
same handsome Prince, as large as life, and so well painted that as she
studied it he seemed to smile kindly at her. Tearing herself away from
the portrait at last, she passed through into a room which contained
every musical instrument under the sun, and here she amused herself for
a long while in trying some of them, and singing until she was tired.
The next room was a library, and she saw everything she had ever wanted
to read, as well as everything she had read, and it seemed to her that a
whole lifetime would not be enough to even read the names of the books,
there were so many. By this time it was growing dusk, and wax candles
in diamond and ruby candlesticks were beginning to light themselves in
every room.

Beauty found her supper served just at the time she preferred to have
it, but she did not see anyone or hear a sound, and, though her father
had warned her that she would be alone, she began to find it rather
dull.

But presently she heard the Beast coming, and wondered tremblingly if he
meant to eat her up now.

However, as he did not seem at all ferocious, and only said gruffly:

"Good-evening, Beauty," she answered cheerfully and managed to conceal
her terror. Then the Beast asked her how she had been amusing herself,
and she told him all the rooms she had seen.

Then he asked if she thought she could be happy in his palace; and
Beauty answered that everything was so beautiful that she would be very
hard to please if she could not be happy. And after about an hour's talk
Beauty began to think that the Beast was not nearly so terrible as she
had supposed at first. Then he got up to leave her, and said in his
gruff voice:

"Do you love me, Beauty? Will you marry me?"

"Oh! what shall I say?" cried Beauty, for she was afraid to make the
Beast angry by refusing.

"Say 'yes' or 'no' without fear," he replied.

"Oh! no, Beast," said Beauty hastily.

"Since you will not, good-night, Beauty," he said.

And she answered, "Good-night, Beast," very glad to find that her
refusal had not provoked him. And after he was gone she was very soon in
bed and asleep, and dreaming of her unknown Prince. She thought he came
and said to her:

"Ah, Beauty! why are you so unkind to me? I fear I am fated to be
unhappy for many a long day still."

And then her dreams changed, but the charming Prince figured in
them all; and when morning came her first thought was to look at the
portrait, and see if it was really like him, and she found that it
certainly was.

This morning she decided to amuse herself in the garden, for the sun
shone, and all the fountains were playing; but she was astonished to
find that every place was familiar to her, and presently she came to the
brook where the myrtle trees were growing where she had first met the
Prince in her dream, and that made her think more than ever that he must
be kept a prisoner by the Beast. When she was tired she went back to
the palace, and found a new room full of materials for every kind of
work--ribbons to make into bows, and silks to work into flowers. Then
there was an aviary full of rare birds, which were so tame that they
flew to Beauty as soon as they saw her, and perched upon her shoulders
and her head.

"Pretty little creatures," she said, "how I wish that your cage was
nearer to my room, that I might often hear you sing!"

So saying she opened a door, and found, to her delight, that it led into
her own room, though she had thought it was quite the other side of the
palace.

There were more birds in a room farther on, parrots and cockatoos that
could talk, and they greeted Beauty by name; indeed, she found them so
entertaining that she took one or two back to her room, and they talked
to her while she was at supper; after which the Beast paid her his usual
visit, and asked her the same questions as before, and then with a gruff
"good-night" he took his departure, and Beauty went to bed to dream of
her mysterious Prince. The days passed swiftly in different amusements,
and after a while Beauty found out another strange thing in the palace,
which often pleased her when she was tired of being alone. There was one
room which she had not noticed particularly; it was empty, except that
under each of the windows stood a very comfortable chair; and the first
time she had looked out of the window it had seemed to her that a black
curtain prevented her from seeing anything outside. But the second time
she went into the room, happening to be tired, she sat down in one of
the chairs, when instantly the curtain was rolled aside, and a most
amusing pantomime was acted before her; there were dances, and colored
lights, and music, and pretty dresses, and it was all so gay that Beauty
was in ecstacies. After that she tried the other seven windows in turn,
and there was some new and surprising entertainment to be seen from each
of them, so that Beauty never could feel lonely any more. Every evening
after supper the Beast came to see her, and always before saying
good-night asked her in his terrible voice:

"Beauty, will you marry me?"

And it seemed to Beauty, now she understood him better, that when she
said, "No, Beast," he went away quite sad. But her happy dreams of the
handsome young Prince soon made her forget the poor Beast, and the only
thing that at all disturbed her was to be constantly told to distrust
appearances, to let her heart guide her, and not her eyes, and many
other equally perplexing things, which, consider as she would, she could
not understand.

So everything went on for a long time, until at last, happy as she was,
Beauty began to long for the sight of her father and her brothers and
sisters; and one night, seeing her look very sad, the Beast asked her
what was the matter. Beauty had quite ceased to be afraid of him. Now
she knew that he was really gentle in spite of his ferocious looks and
his dreadful voice. So she answered that she was longing to see her
home once more. Upon hearing this the Beast seemed sadly distressed, and
cried miserably.

"Ah! Beauty, have you the heart to desert an unhappy Beast like this?
What more do you want to make you happy? Is it because you hate me that
you want to escape?"

"No, dear Beast," answered Beauty softly, "I do not hate you, and I
should be very sorry never to see you any more, but I long to see my
father again. Only let me go for two months, and I promise to come back
to you and stay for the rest of my life."

The Beast, who had been sighing dolefully while she spoke, now replied:

"I cannot refuse you anything you ask, even though it should cost me my
life. Take the four boxes you will find in the room next to your own,
and fill them with everything you wish to take with you. But remember
your promise and come back when the two months are over, or you may have
cause to repent it, for if you do not come in good time you will find
your faithful Beast dead. You will not need any chariot to bring you
back. Only say good-by to all your brothers and sisters the night before
you come away, and when you have gone to bed turn this ring round upon
your finger and say firmly: 'I wish to go back to my palace and see my
Beast again.' Good-night, Beauty. Fear nothing, sleep peacefully, and
before long you shall see your father once more."

As soon as Beauty was alone she hastened to fill the boxes with all the
rare and precious things she saw about her, and only when she was tired
of heaping things into them did they seem to be full.

Then she went to bed, but could hardly sleep for joy. And when at last
she did begin to dream of her beloved Prince she was grieved to see him
stretched upon a grassy bank, sad and weary, and hardly like himself.

"What is the matter?" she cried.

He looked at her reproachfully, and said:

"How can you ask me, cruel one? Are you not leaving me to my death
perhaps?"

"Ah! don't be so sorrowful," cried Beauty; "I am only going to assure
my father that I am safe and happy. I have promised the Beast faithfully
that I will come back, and he would die of grief if I did not keep my
word!"

"What would that matter to you?" said the Prince "Surely you would not
care?"

"Indeed, I should be ungrateful if I did not care for such a kind
Beast," cried Beauty indignantly. "I would die to save him from pain. I
assure you it is not his fault that he is so ugly."

Just then a strange sound woke her--someone was speaking not very far
away; and opening her eyes she found herself in a room she had never
seen before, which was certainly not nearly so splendid as those she
was used to in the Beast's palace. Where could she be? She got up and
dressed hastily, and then saw that the boxes she had packed the night
before were all in the room. While she was wondering by what magic
the Beast had transported them and herself to this strange place she
suddenly heard her father's voice, and rushed out and greeted
him joyfully. Her brothers and sisters were all astonished at her
appearance, as they had never expected to see her again, and there was
no end to the questions they asked her. She had also much to hear
about what had happened to them while she was away, and of her father's
journey home. But when they heard that she had only come to be with them
for a short time, and then must go back to the Beast's palace for ever,
they lamented loudly. Then Beauty asked her father what he thought could
be the meaning of her strange dreams, and why the Prince constantly
begged her not to trust to appearances. After much consideration, he
answered: "You tell me yourself that the Beast, frightful as he
is, loves you dearly, and deserves your love and gratitude for his
gentleness and kindness; I think the Prince must mean you to understand
that you ought to reward him by doing as he wishes you to, in spite of
his ugliness."

Beauty could not help seeing that this seemed very probable; still, when
she thought of her dear Prince who was so handsome, she did not feel at
all inclined to marry the Beast. At any rate, for two months she need
not decide, but could enjoy herself with her sisters. But though they
were rich now, and lived in town again, and had plenty of acquaintances,
Beauty found that nothing amused her very much; and she often thought of
the palace, where she was so happy, especially as at home she never once
dreamed of her dear Prince, and she felt quite sad without him.

Then her sisters seemed to have got quite used to being without her, and
even found her rather in the way, so she would not have been sorry when
the two months were over but for her father and brothers, who begged her
to stay, and seemed so grieved at the thought of her departure that she
had not the courage to say good-by to them. Every day when she got up
she meant to say it at night, and when night came she put it off again,
until at last she had a dismal dream which helped her to make up her
mind. She thought she was wandering in a lonely path in the palace
gardens, when she heard groans which seemed to come from some bushes
hiding the entrance of a cave, and running quickly to see what could be
the matter, she found the Beast stretched out upon his side, apparently
dying. He reproached her faintly with being the cause of his distress,
and at the same moment a stately lady appeared, and said very gravely:

"Ah! Beauty, you are only just in time to save his life. See what
happens when people do not keep their promises! If you had delayed one
day more, you would have found him dead."

Beauty was so terrified by this dream that the next morning she
announced her intention of going back at once, and that very night she
said good-by to her father and all her brothers and sisters, and as soon
as she was in bed she turned her ring round upon her finger, and said
firmly, "I wish to go back to my palace and see my Beast again," as she
had been told to do.

Then she fell asleep instantly, and only woke up to hear the clock
saying "Beauty, Beauty" twelve times in its musical voice, which told
her at once that she was really in the palace once more. Everything
was just as before, and her birds were so glad to see her! But Beauty
thought she had never known such a long day, for she was so anxious to
see the Beast again that she felt as if suppertime would never come.

But when it did come and no Beast appeared she was really frightened;
so, after listening and waiting for a long time, she ran down into the
garden to search for him. Up and down the paths and avenues ran poor
Beauty, calling him in vain, for no one answered, and not a trace of him
could she find; until at last, quite tired, she stopped for a minute's
rest, and saw that she was standing opposite the shady path she had seen
in her dream. She rushed down it, and, sure enough, there was the cave,
and in it lay the Beast--asleep, as Beauty thought. Quite glad to have
found him, she ran up and stroked his head, but, to her horror, he did
not move or open his eyes.

"Oh! he is dead; and it is all my fault," said Beauty, crying bitterly.

But then, looking at him again, she fancied he still breathed, and,
hastily fetching some water from the nearest fountain, she sprinkled it
over his face, and, to her great delight, he began to revive.

"Oh! Beast, how you frightened me!" she cried. "I never knew how much
I loved you until just now, when I feared I was too late to save your
life."

"Can you really love such an ugly creature as I am?" said the Beast
faintly. "Ah! Beauty, you only came just in time. I was dying because
I thought you had forgotten your promise. But go back now and rest, I
shall see you again by and by."

Beauty, who had half expected that he would be angry with her, was
reassured by his gentle voice, and went back to the palace, where supper
was awaiting her; and afterward the Beast came in as usual, and talked
about the time she had spent with her father, asking if she had enjoyed
herself, and if they had all been very glad to see her.

Beauty answered politely, and quite enjoyed telling him all that had
happened to her. And when at last the time came for him to go, and he
asked, as he had so often asked before, "Beauty, will you marry me?"

She answered softly, "Yes, dear Beast."

As she spoke a blaze of light sprang up before the windows of the
palace; fireworks crackled and guns banged, and across the avenue of
orange trees, in letters all made of fire-flies, was written: "Long live
the Prince and his Bride."

Turning to ask the Beast what it could all mean, Beauty found that he
had disappeared, and in his place stood her long-loved Prince! At the
same moment the wheels of a chariot were heard upon the terrace, and two
ladies entered the room. One of them Beauty recognized as the stately
lady she had seen in her dreams; the other was also so grand and queenly
that Beauty hardly knew which to greet first.

But the one she already knew said to her companion:

"Well, Queen, this is Beauty, who has had the courage to rescue your
son from the terrible enchantment. They love one another, and only your
consent to their marriage is wanting to make them perfectly happy."

"I consent with all my heart," cried the Queen. "How can I ever thank
you enough, charming girl, for having restored my dear son to his
natural form?"

And then she tenderly embraced Beauty and the Prince, who had meanwhile
been greeting the Fairy and receiving her congratulations.

"Now," said the Fairy to Beauty, "I suppose you would like me to send
for all your brothers and sisters to dance at your wedding?"

And so she did, and the marriage was celebrated the very next day
with the utmost splendor, and Beauty and the Prince lived happily ever
after.(1)


(1) La Belle et la Bete. Par Madame de Villeneuve.




THE MASTER-MAID


Once upon a time there was a king who had many sons. I do not exactly
know how many there were, but the youngest of them could not stay
quietly at home, and was determined to go out into the world and try his
luck, and after a long time the King was forced to give him leave to go.
When he had traveled about for several days, he came to a giant's house,
and hired himself to the giant as a servant. In the morning the giant
had to go out to pasture his goats, and as he was leaving the house he
told the King's son that he must clean out the stable. "And after you
have done that," he said, "you need not do any more work to-day, for you
have come to a kind master, and that you shall find. But what I set you
to do must be done both well and thoroughly, and you must on no account
go into any of the rooms which lead out of the room in which you slept
last night. If you do, I will take your life."

"Well to be sure, he is an easy master!" said the Prince to himself as
he walked up and down the room humming and singing, for he thought there
would be plenty of time left to clean out the stable; "but it would be
amusing to steal a glance into his other rooms as well," thought the
Prince, "for there must be something that he is afraid of my seeing,
as I am not allowed to enter them." So he went into the first room.
A cauldron was hanging from the walls; it was boiling, but the Prince
could see no fire under it. "I wonder what is inside it," he thought,
and dipped a lock of his hair in, and the hair became just as if it were
all made of copper. "That's a nice kind of soup. If anyone were to taste
that his throat would be gilded," said the youth, and then he went into
the next chamber. There, too, a cauldron was hanging from the wall,
bubbling and boiling, but there was no fire under this either. "I will
just try what this is like too," said the Prince, thrusting another lock
of his hair into it, and it came out silvered over. "Such costly soup is
not to be had in my father's palace," said the Prince; "but everything
depends on how it tastes," and then he went into the third room. There,
too, a cauldron was hanging from the wall, boiling, exactly the same
as in the two other rooms, and the Prince took pleasure in trying this
also, so he dipped a lock of hair in, and it came out so brightly gilded
that it shone again. "Some talk about going from bad to worse," said the
Prince; "but this is better and better. If he boils gold here, what can
he boil in there?" He was determined to see, and went through the door
into the fourth room. No cauldron was to be seen there, but on a bench
someone was seated who was like a king's daughter, but, whosoever she
was, she was so beautiful that never in the Prince's life had he seen
her equal.

"Oh! in heaven's name what are you doing here?" said she who sat upon
the bench.

"I took the place of servant here yesterday," said the Prince.

"May you soon have a better place, if you have come to serve here!" said
she.

"Oh, but I think I have got a kind master," said the Prince. "He has not
given me hard work to do to-day. When I have cleaned out the stable I
shall be done."

"Yes, but how will you be able to do that?" she asked again. "If you
clean it out as other people do, ten pitchforksful will come in for
every one you throw out. But I will teach you how to do it; you must
turn your pitchfork upside down, and work with the handle, and then all
will fly out of its own accord."

"Yes, I will attend to that," said the Prince, and stayed sitting where
he was the whole day, for it was soon settled between them that they
would marry each other, he and the King's daughter; so the first day of
his service with the giant did not seem long to him. But when evening
was drawing near she said that it would now be better for him to clean
out the stable before the giant came home. When he got there he had a
fancy to try if what she had said were true, so he began to work in the
same way that he had seen the stable-boys doing in his father's stables,
but he soon saw that he must give up that, for when he had worked a very
short time he had scarcely any room left to stand. So he did what the
Princess had taught him, turned the pitchfork round, and worked with the
handle, and in the twinkling of an eye the stable was as clean as if
it had been scoured. When he had done that, he went back again into the
room in which the giant had given him leave to stay, and there he walked
backward and forward on the floor, and began to hum and sing.

Then came the giant home with the goats. "Have you cleaned the stable?"
asked the giant.

"Yes, now it is clean and sweet, master," said the King's son.

"I shall see about that," said the giant, and went round to the stable,
but it was just as the Prince had said.

"You have certainly been talking to my Master-maid, for you never got
that out of your own head," said the giant.

"Master-maid! What kind of a thing is that, master?" said the Prince,
making himself look as stupid as an ass; "I should like to see that."

"Well, you will see her quite soon enough," said the giant.

On the second morning the giant had again to go out with his goats,
so he told the Prince that on that day he was to fetch home his horse,
which was out on the mountain-side, and when he had done that he might
rest himself for the remainder of the day, "for you have come to a kind
master, and that you shall find," said the giant once more. "But do not
go into any of the rooms that I spoke of yesterday, or I will wring your
head off," said he, and then went away with his flock of goats.

"Yes, indeed, you are a kind master," said the Prince; "but I will go
in and talk to the Master-maid again; perhaps before long she may like
better to be mine than yours."

So he went to her. Then she asked him what he had to do that day.

"Oh! not very dangerous work, I fancy," said the King's son. "I have
only to go up the mountain-side after his horse."

"Well, how do you mean to set about it?" asked the Master-maid.

"Oh! there is no great art in riding a horse home," said the King's son.
"I think I must have ridden friskier horses before now."

"Yes, but it is not so easy a thing as you think to ride the horse
home," said the Master-maid; "but I will teach you what to do. When you
go near it, fire will burst out of its nostrils like flames from a pine
torch; but be very careful, and take the bridle which is hanging by the
door there, and fling the bit straight into his jaws, and then it will
become so tame that you will be able to do what you like with it." He
said he would bear this in mind, and then he again sat in there the
whole day by the Master-maid, and they chatted and talked of one thing
and another, but the first thing and the last now was, how happy and
delightful it would be if they could but marry each other, and get
safely away from the giant; and the Prince would have forgotten both the
mountain-side and the horse if the Master-maid had not reminded him of
them as evening drew near, and said that now it would be better if he
went to fetch the horse before the giant came. So he did this, and
took the bridle which was hanging on a crook, and strode up the
mountain-side, and it was not long before he met with the horse, and
fire and red flames streamed forth out of its nostrils. But the youth
carefully watched his opportunity, and just as it was rushing at him
with open jaws he threw the bit straight into its mouth, and the horse
stood as quiet as a young lamb, and there was no difficulty at all in
getting it home to the stable. Then the Prince went back into his room
again, and began to hum and to sing.

Toward evening the giant came home. "Have you fetched the horse back
from the mountain-side?" he asked.

"That I have, master; it was an amusing horse to ride, but I rode him
straight home, and put him in the stable too," said the Prince.

"I will see about that," said the giant, and went out to the stable,
but the horse was standing there just as the Prince had said. "You have
certainly been talking with my Master-maid, for you never got that out
of your own head," said the giant again.

"Yesterday, master, you talked about this Master-maid, and to-day you
are talking about her; ah, heaven bless you, master, why will you not
show me the thing? for it would be a real pleasure to me to see it,"
said the Prince, who again pretended to be silly and stupid.

"Oh! you will see her quite soon enough," said the giant.

On the morning of the third day the giant again had to go into the wood
with the goats. "To-day you must go underground and fetch my taxes,"
he said to the Prince. "When you have done this, you may rest for the
remainder of the day, for you shall see what an easy master you have
come to," and then he went away.

"Well, however easy a master you may be, you set me very hard work
to do," thought the Prince; "but I will see if I cannot find your
Master-maid; you say she is yours, but for all that she may be able
to tell me what to do now," and he went back to her. So, when the
Master-maid asked him what the giant had set him to do that day, he told
her that he was to go underground and get the taxes.

"And how will you set about that?" said the Master-maid.

"Oh! you must tell me how to do it," said the Prince, "for I have never
yet been underground, and even if I knew the way I do not know how much
I am to demand."

"Oh! yes, I will soon tell you that; you must go to the rock there under
the mountain-ridge, and take the club that is there, and knock on the
rocky wall," said the Master-maid. "Then someone will come out who will
sparkle with fire; you shall tell him your errand, and when he asks you
how much you want to have you are to say: 'As much as I can carry.'"

"Yes, I will keep that in mind," said he, and then he sat there with the
Master-maid the whole day, until night drew near, and he would gladly
have stayed there till now if the Master-maid had not reminded him that
it was time to be off to fetch the taxes before the giant came.

So he set out on his way, and did exactly what the Master-maid had told
him. He went to the rocky wall, and took the club, and knocked on it.
Then came one so full of sparks that they flew both out of his eyes and
his nose. "What do you want?" said he.

"I was to come here for the giant, and demand the tax for him," said the
King's son.

"How much are you to have then?" said the other.

"I ask for no more than I am able to carry with me," said the Prince.

"It is well for you that you have not asked for a horse-load," said he
who had come out of the rock. "But now come in with me."

This the Prince did, and what a quantity of gold and silver he saw! It
was lying inside the mountain like heaps of stones in a waste place, and
he got a load that was as large as he was able to carry, and with that
he went his way. So in the evening, when the giant came home with the
goats, the Prince went into the chamber and hummed and sang again as he
had done on the other two evenings.

"Have you been for the tax?" said the giant.

"Yes, that I have, master," said the Prince.

"Where have you put it then?" said the giant again.

"The bag of gold is standing there on the bench," said the Prince.

"I will see about that," said the giant, and went away to the bench,
but the bag was standing there, and it was so full that gold and silver
dropped out when the giant untied the string.

"You have certainly been talking with my Master-maid!" said the giant,
"and if you have I will wring your neck."

"Master-maid?" said the Prince; "yesterday my master talked about this
Master-maid, and to-day he is talking about her again, and the first
day of all it was talk of the same kind. I do wish I could see the thing
myself," said he.

"Yes, yes, wait till to-morrow," said the giant, "and then I myself will
take you to her."

"Ah! master, I thank you--but you are only mocking me," said the King's
son.

Next day the giant took him to the Master-maid. "Now you shall kill him,
and boil him in the great big cauldron you know of, and when you have
got the broth ready give me a call," said the giant; then he lay down
on the bench to sleep, and almost immediately began to snore so that it
sounded like thunder among the hills.

So the Master-maid took a knife, and cut the Prince's little finger, and
dropped three drops of blood upon a wooden stool; then she took all the
old rags, and shoe-soles, and all the rubbish she could lay hands on,
and put them in the cauldron; and then she filled a chest with gold
dust, and a lump of salt, and a water-flask which was hanging by the
door, and she also took with her a golden apple, and two gold chickens;
and then she and the Prince went away with all the speed they could,
and when they had gone a little way they came to the sea, and then
they sailed, but where they got the ship from I have never been able to
learn.

Now, when the giant had slept a good long time, he began to stretch
himself on the bench on which he was lying. "Will it soon boil?" said
he.

"It is just beginning," said the first drop of blood on the stool.

So the giant lay down to sleep again, and slept for a long, long time.
Then he began to move about a little again. "Will it soon be ready now?"
said he, but he did not look up this time any more than he had done the
first time, for he was still half asleep.

"Half done!" said the second drop of blood, and the giant believed it
was the Master-maid again, and turned himself on the bench, and lay down
to sleep once more. When he had slept again for many hours, he began to
move and stretch himself. "Is it not done yet?" said he.

"It is quite ready," said the third drop of blood. Then the giant began
to sit up and rub his eyes, but he could not see who it was who had
spoken to him, so he asked for the Master-maid, and called her. But
there was no one to give him an answer.

"Ah! well, she has just stolen out for a little," thought the giant, and
he took a spoon, and went off to the cauldron to have a taste; but there
was nothing in it but shoe-soles, and rags, and such trumpery as that,
and all was boiled up together, so that he could not tell whether it
was porridge or milk pottage. When he saw this, he understood what had
happened, and fell into such a rage that he hardly knew what he was
doing. Away he went after the Prince and the Master-maid so fast that
the wind whistled behind him, and it was not long before he came to the
water, but he could not get over it. "Well, well, I will soon find a
cure for that; I have only to call my river-sucker," said the giant, and
he did call him. So his river-sucker came and lay down, and drank one,
two, three draughts, and with that the water in the sea fell so low that
the giant saw the Master-maid and the Prince out on the sea in their
ship. "Now you must throw out the lump of salt," said the Master-maid,
and the Prince did so, and it grew up into such a great high mountain
right across the sea that the giant could not come over it, and the
river-sucker could not drink any more water. "Well, well, I will soon
find a cure for that," said the giant, so he called to his hill-borer
to come and bore through the mountain so that the river-sucker might be
able to drink up the water again. But just as the hole was made, and the
river-sucker was beginning to drink, the Master-maid told the Prince to
throw one or two drops out of the flask, and when he did this the sea
instantly became full of water again, and before the river-sucker
could take one drink they reached the land and were in safety. So they
determined to go home to the Prince's father, but the Prince would on no
account permit the Master-maid to walk there, for he thought that it was
unbecoming either for her or for him to go on foot.

"Wait here the least little bit of time, while I go home for the seven
horses which stand in my father's stable," said he; "it is not far off,
and I shall not be long away, but I will not let my betrothed bride go
on foot to the palace."

"Oh! no, do not go, for if you go home to the King's palace you will
forget me, I foresee that."

"How could I forget you? We have suffered so much evil together, and
love each other so much," said the Prince; and he insisted on going home
for the coach with the seven horses, and she was to wait for him there,
by the sea-shore. So at last the Master-maid had to yield, for he was
so absolutely determined to do it. "But when you get there you must
not even give yourself time to greet anyone, but go straight into the
stable, and take the horses, and put them in the coach, and drive back
as quickly as you can. For they will all come round about you; but you
must behave just as if you did not see them, and on no account must you
taste anything, for if you do it will cause great misery both to you and
to me," said she; and this he promised.

But when he got home to the King's palace one of his brothers was just
going to be married, and the bride and all her kith and kin had come
to the palace; so they all thronged round him, and questioned him about
this and that, and wanted him to go in with them; but he behaved as if
he did not see them, and went straight to the stable, and got out the
horses and began to harness them. When they saw that they could not by
any means prevail on him to go in with them, they came out to him with
meat and drink, and the best of everything that they had prepared for
the wedding; but the Prince refused to touch anything, and would do
nothing but put the horses in as quickly as he could. At last, however,
the bride's sister rolled an apple across the yard to him, and said: "As
you won't eat anything else, you may like to take a bite of that, for
you must be both hungry and thirsty after your long journey." And he
took up the apple and bit a piece out of it. But no sooner had he got
the piece of apple in his mouth than he forgot the Master-maid and that
he was to go back in the coach to fetch her.

"I think I must be mad! what do I want with this coach and horses?" said
he; and then he put the horses back into the stable, and went into the
King's palace, and there it was settled that he should marry the bride's
sister, who had rolled the apple to him.

The Master-maid sat by the sea-shore for a long, long time, waiting
for the Prince, but no Prince came. So she went away, and when she had
walked a short distance she came to a little hut which stood all alone
in a small wood, hard by the King's palace. She entered it and asked if
she might be allowed to stay there. The hut belonged to an old crone,
who was also an ill-tempered and malicious troll. At first she would not
let the Master-maid remain with her; but at last, after a long time, by
means of good words and good payment, she obtained leave. But the hut
was as dirty and black inside as a pigsty, so the Master-maid said that
she would smarten it up a little, that it might look a little more like
what other people's houses looked inside. The old crone did not like
this either. She scowled, and was very cross, but the Master-maid did
not trouble herself about that. She took out her chest of gold, and
flung a handful of it or so into the fire, and the gold boiled up and
poured out over the whole of the hut, until every part of it both inside
and out was gilded. But when the gold began to bubble up the old hag
grew so terrified that she fled as if the Evil One himself were pursuing
her, and she did not remember to stoop down as she went through the
doorway, and so she split her head and died. Next morning the sheriff
came traveling by there. He was greatly astonished when he saw the gold
hut shining and glittering there in the copse, and he was still more
astonished when he went in and caught sight of the beautiful young
maiden who was sitting there; he fell in love with her at once, and
straightway on the spot he begged her, both prettily and kindly, to
marry him.

"Well, but have you a great deal of money?" said the Master-maid.

"Oh! yes; so far as that is concerned, I am not ill off," said the
sheriff. So now he had to go home to get the money, and in the evening
he came back, bringing with him a bag with two bushels in it, which he
set down on the bench. Well, as he had such a fine lot of money, the
Master-maid said she would have him, so they sat down to talk.

But scarcely had they sat down together before the Master-maid wanted to
jump up again. "I have forgotten to see to the fire," she said.

"Why should you jump up to do that?" said the sheriff; "I will do that!"
So he jumped up, and went to the chimney in one bound.

"Just tell me when you have got hold of the shovel," said the
Master-maid.

"Well, I have hold of it now," said the sheriff.

"Then you may hold the shovel, and the shovel you, and pour red-hot
coals over you, till day dawns," said the Master-maid. So the sheriff
had to stand there the whole night and pour red-hot coals over himself,
and, no matter how much he cried and begged and entreated, the red-hot
coals did not grow the colder for that. When the day began to dawn, and
he had power to throw down the shovel, he did not stay long where he
was, but ran away as fast as he possibly could; and everyone who met him
stared and looked after him, for he was flying as if he were mad, and he
could not have looked worse if he had been both flayed and tanned, and
everyone wondered where he had been, but for very shame he would tell
nothing.

The next day the attorney came riding by the place where the Master-maid
dwelt. He saw how brightly the hut shone and gleamed through the wood,
and he too went into it to see who lived there, and when he entered and
saw the beautiful young maiden he fell even more in love with her than
the sheriff had done, and began to woo her at once. So the Master-maid
asked him, as she had asked the sheriff, if he had a great deal of
money, and the attorney said he was not ill off for that, and would at
once go home to get it; and at night he came with a great big sack of
money--this time it was a four-bushel sack--and set it on the bench by
the Master-maid. So she promised to have him, and he sat down on the
bench by her to arrange about it, but suddenly she said that she had
forgotten to lock the door of the porch that night, and must do it.

"Why should you do that?" said the attorney; "sit still, I will do it."

So he was on his feet in a moment, and out in the porch.

"Tell me when you have got hold of the door-latch," said the
Master-maid.

"I have hold of it now," cried the attorney.

"Then you may hold the door, and the door you, and may you go between
wall and wall till day dawns."

What a dance the attorney had that night! He had never had such a waltz
before, and he never wished to have such a dance again. Sometimes he was
in front of the door, and sometimes the door was in front of him, and
it went from one side of the porch to the other, till the attorney was
well-nigh beaten to death. At first he began to abuse the Master-maid,
and then to beg and pray, but the door did not care for anything but
keeping him where he was till break of day.

As soon as the door let go its hold of him, off went the attorney. He
forgot who ought to be paid off for what he had suffered, he forgot
both his sack of money and his wooing, for he was so afraid lest the
house-door should come dancing after him. Everyone who met him stared
and looked after him, for he was flying like a madman, and he could not
have looked worse if a herd of rams had been butting at him all night
long.

On the third day the bailiff came by, and he too saw the gold house
in the little wood, and he too felt that he must go and see who lived
there; and when he caught sight of the Master-maid he became so much in
love with her that he wooed her almost before he greeted her.

The Master-maid answered him as she had answered the other two, that
if he had a great deal of money, she would have him. "So far as that is
concerned, I am not ill off," said the bailiff; so he was at once told
to go home and fetch it, and this he did. At night he came back, and he
had a still larger sack of money with him than the attorney had brought;
it must have been at least six bushels, and he set it down on the bench.
So it was settled that he was to have the Master-maid. But hardly had
they sat down together before she said that she had forgotten to bring
in the calf, and must go out to put it in the byre.

"No, indeed, you shall not do that," said the bailiff; "I am the one to
do that." And, big and fat as he was, he went out as briskly as a boy.

"Tell me when you have got hold of the calf's tail," said the
Master-maid.

"I have hold of it now," cried the bailiff.

"Then may you hold the calf's tail, and the calf's tail hold you,
and may you go round the world together till day dawns!" said the
Master-maid. So the bailiff had to bestir himself, for the calf went
over rough and smooth, over hill and dale, and, the more the bailiff
cried and screamed, the faster the calf went. When daylight began to
appear, the bailiff was half dead; and so glad was he to leave loose
of the calf's tail, that he forgot the sack of money and all else. He
walked now slowly--more slowly than the sheriff and the attorney had
done, but, the slower he went, the more time had everyone to stare and
look at him; and they used it too, and no one can imagine how tired out
and ragged he looked after his dance with the calf.

On the following day the wedding was to take place in the King's palace,
and the elder brother was to drive to church with his bride, and the
brother who had been with the giant with her sister. But when they had
seated themselves in the coach and were about to drive off from the
palace one of the trace-pins broke, and, though they made one, two, and
three to put in its place, that did not help them, for each broke in
turn, no matter what kind of wood they used to make them of. This went
on for a long time, and they could not get away from the palace, so they
were all in great trouble. Then the sheriff said (for he too had been
bidden to the wedding at Court): "Yonder away in the thicket dwells a
maiden, and if you can get her to lend you the handle of the shovel that
she uses to make up her fire I know very well that it will hold fast."
So they sent off a messenger to the thicket, and begged so prettily that
they might have the loan of her shovel-handle of which the sheriff had
spoken that they were not refused; so now they had a trace-pin which
would not snap in two.

But all at once, just as they were starting, the bottom of the coach
fell in pieces. They made a new bottom as fast as they could, but, no
matter how they nailed it together, or what kind of wood they used,
no sooner had they got the new bottom into the coach and were about to
drive off than it broke again, so that they were still worse off than
when they had broken the trace-pin. Then the attorney said, for he too
was at the wedding in the palace: "Away there in the thicket dwells
a maiden, and if you could but get her to lend you one-half of her
porch-door I am certain that it will hold together." So they again sent
a messenger to the thicket, and begged so prettily for the loan of the
gilded porch-door of which the attorney had told them that they got it
at once. They were just setting out again, but now the horses were not
able to draw the coach. They had six horses already, and now they put in
eight, and then ten, and then twelve, but the more they put in, and
the more the coachman whipped them, the less good it did; and the coach
never stirred from the spot. It was already beginning to be late in the
day, and to church they must and would go, so everyone who was in the
palace was in a state of distress. Then the bailiff spoke up and said:
"Out there in the gilded cottage in the thicket dwells a girl, and if
you could but get her to lend you her calf I know it could draw the
coach, even if it were as heavy as a mountain." They all thought that
it was ridiculous to be drawn to church by a calf, but there was nothing
else for it but to send a messenger once more, and beg as prettily as
they could, on behalf of the King, that she would let them have the loan
of the calf that the bailiff had told them about. The Master-maid let
them have it immediately--this time also she would not say "no."

Then they harnessed the calf to see if the coach would move; and away
it went, over rough and smooth, over stock and stone, so that they could
scarcely breathe, and sometimes they were on the ground, and sometimes
up in the air; and when they came to the church the coach began to
go round and round like a spinning-wheel, and it was with the utmost
difficulty and danger that they were able to get out of the coach and
into the church. And when they went back again the coach went quicker
still, so that most of them did not know how they got back to the palace
at all.

When they had seated themselves at the table the Prince who had been in
service with the giant said that he thought they ought to have invited
the maiden who had lent them the shovel-handle, and the porch-door,
and the calf up to the palace, "for," said he, "if we had not got these
three things, we should never have got away from the palace."

The King also thought that this was both just and proper, so he sent
five of his best men down to the gilded hut, to greet the maiden
courteously from the King, and to beg her to be so good as to come up to
the palace to dinner at mid-day.

"Greet the King, and tell him that, if he is too good to come to me, I
am too good to come to him," replied the Master-maid.

So the King had to go himself, and the Master-maid went with him
immediately, and, as the King believed that she was more than she
appeared to be, he seated her in the place of honor by the youngest
bridegroom. When they had sat at the table for a short time, the
Master-maid took out the cock, and the hen, and the golden apple which
she had brought away with her from the giant's house, and set them on
the table in front of her, and instantly the cock and the hen began to
fight with each other for the golden apple.

"Oh! look how those two there are fighting for the golden apple," said
the King's son.

"Yes, and so did we two fight to get out that time when we were in the
mountain," said the Master-maid.

So the Prince knew her again, and you may imagine how delighted he was.
He ordered the troll-witch who had rolled the apple to him to be torn
in pieces between four-and-twenty horses, so that not a bit of her was
left, and then for the first time they began really to keep the wedding,
and, weary as they were, the sheriff, the attorney, and the bailiff kept
it up too.(1)


(1) Asbjornsen and Moe.




WHY THE SEA IS SALT


Once upon a time, long, long ago, there were two brothers, the one rich
and the other poor. When Christmas Eve came, the poor one had not a bite
in the house, either of meat or bread; so he went to his brother, and
begged him, in God's name, to give him something for Christmas Day. It
was by no means the first time that the brother had been forced to give
something to him, and he was not better pleased at being asked now than
he generally was.

"If you will do what I ask you, you shall have a whole ham," said he.
The poor one immediately thanked him, and promised this.

"Well, here is the ham, and now you must go straight to Dead Man's
Hall," said the rich brother, throwing the ham to him.

"Well, I will do what I have promised," said the other, and he took
the ham and set off. He went on and on for the livelong day, and at
nightfall he came to a place where there was a bright light.

"I have no doubt this is the place," thought the man with the ham.

An old man with a long white beard was standing in the outhouse,
chopping Yule logs.

"Good-evening," said the man with the ham.

"Good-evening to you. Where are you going at this late hour?" said the
man.

"I am going to Dead Man's Hall, if only I am on the right track,"
answered the poor man.

"Oh! yes, you are right enough, for it is here," said the old man. "When
you get inside they will all want to buy your ham, for they don't get
much meat to eat there; but you must not sell it unless you can get the
hand-mill which stands behind the door for it. When you come out again
I will teach you how to stop the hand-mill, which is useful for almost
everything."

So the man with the ham thanked the other for his good advice, and
rapped at the door.

When he got in, everything happened just as the old man had said it
would: all the people, great and small, came round him like ants on an
ant-hill, and each tried to outbid the other for the ham.

"By rights my old woman and I ought to have it for our Christmas dinner,
but, since you have set your hearts upon it, I must just give it up to
you," said the man. "But, if I sell it, I will have the hand-mill which
is standing there behind the door."

At first they would not hear of this, and haggled and bargained with
the man, but he stuck to what he had said, and the people were forced
to give him the hand-mill. When the man came out again into the yard, he
asked the old wood-cutter how he was to stop the hand-mill, and when he
had learned that, he thanked him and set off home with all the speed he
could, but did not get there until after the clock had struck twelve on
Christmas Eve.

"Where in the world have you been?" said the old woman. "Here I have sat
waiting hour after hour, and have not even two sticks to lay across each
other under the Christmas porridge-pot."

"Oh! I could not come before; I had something of importance to see
about, and a long way to go, too; but now you shall just see!" said the
man, and then he set the hand-mill on the table, and bade it first grind
light, then a table-cloth, and then meat, and beer, and everything else
that was good for a Christmas Eve's supper; and the mill ground all that
he ordered. "Bless me!" said the old woman as one thing after another
appeared; and she wanted to know where her husband had got the mill
from, but he would not tell her that.

"Never mind where I got it; you can see that it is a good one, and the
water that turns it will never freeze," said the man. So he ground meat
and drink, and all kinds of good things, to last all Christmas-tide, and
on the third day he invited all his friends to come to a feast.

Now when the rich brother saw all that there was at the banquet and in
the house, he was both vexed and angry, for he grudged everything his
brother had. "On Christmas Eve he was so poor that he came to me and
begged for a trifle, for God's sake, and now he gives a feast as if he
were both a count and a king!" thought he. "But, for heaven's sake, tell
me where you got your riches from," said he to his brother.

"From behind the door," said he who owned the mill, for he did not
choose to satisfy his brother on that point; but later in the evening,
when he had taken a drop too much, he could not refrain from telling how
he had come by the hand-mill. "There you see what has brought me all my
wealth!" said he, and brought out the mill, and made it grind first one
thing and then another. When the brother saw that, he insisted on having
the mill, and after a great deal of persuasion got it; but he had to
give three hundred dollars for it, and the poor brother was to keep it
till the haymaking was over, for he thought: "If I keep it as long as
that, I can make it grind meat and drink that will last many a long
year." During that time you may imagine that the mill did not grow
rusty, and when hay-harvest came the rich brother got it, but the other
had taken good care not to teach him how to stop it. It was evening when
the rich man got the mill home, and in the morning he bade the old woman
go out and spread the hay after the mowers, and he would attend to the
house himself that day, he said.

So, when dinner-time drew near, he set the mill on the kitchen-table,
and said: "Grind herrings and milk pottage, and do it both quickly and
well."

So the mill began to grind herrings and milk pottage, and first all
the dishes and tubs were filled, and then it came out all over the
kitchen-floor. The man twisted and turned it, and did all he could to
make the mill stop, but, howsoever he turned it and screwed it, the mill
went on grinding, and in a short time the pottage rose so high that the
man was like to be drowned. So he threw open the parlor door, but it was
not long before the mill had ground the parlor full too, and it was
with difficulty and danger that the man could go through the stream of
pottage and get hold of the door-latch. When he got the door open, he
did not stay long in the room, but ran out, and the herrings and pottage
came after him, and it streamed out over both farm and field. Now the
old woman, who was out spreading the hay, began to think dinner was long
in coming, and said to the women and the mowers: "Though the master does
not call us home, we may as well go. It may be that he finds he is not
good at making pottage and I should do well to help him." So they began
to straggle homeward, but when they had got a little way up the hill
they met the herrings and pottage and bread, all pouring forth and
winding about one over the other, and the man himself in front of the
flood. "Would to heaven that each of you had a hundred stomachs! Take
care that you are not drowned in the pottage!" he cried as he went by
them as if Mischief were at his heels, down to where his brother dwelt.
Then he begged him, for God's sake, to take the mill back again, and
that in an instant, for, said he: "If it grind one hour more the whole
district will be destroyed by herrings and pottage." But the brother
would not take it until the other paid him three hundred dollars, and
that he was obliged to do. Now the poor brother had both the money and
the mill again. So it was not long before he had a farmhouse much finer
than that in which his brother lived, but the mill ground him so much
money that he covered it with plates of gold; and the farmhouse lay
close by the sea-shore, so it shone and glittered far out to sea.
Everyone who sailed by there now had to be put in to visit the rich man
in the gold farmhouse, and everyone wanted to see the wonderful mill,
for the report of it spread far and wide, and there was no one who had
not heard tell of it.

After a long, long time came also a skipper who wished to see the mill.
He asked if it could make salt. "Yes, it could make salt," said he who
owned it, and when the skipper heard that, he wished with all his might
and main to have the mill, let it cost what it might, for, he thought,
if he had it, he would get off having to sail far away over the perilous
sea for freights of salt. At first the man would not hear of parting
with it, but the skipper begged and prayed, and at last the man sold it
to him, and got many, many thousand dollars for it. When the skipper
had got the mill on his back he did not stay there long, for he was so
afraid that the man would change his mind, and he had no time to ask
how he was to stop it grinding, but got on board his ship as fast as he
could.

When he had gone a little way out to sea he took the mill on deck.
"Grind salt, and grind both quickly and well," said the skipper. So the
mill began to grind salt, till it spouted out like water, and when
the skipper had got the ship filled he wanted to stop the mill, but
whichsoever way he turned it, and how much soever he tried, it went on
grinding, and the heap of salt grew higher and higher, until at last the
ship sank. There lies the mill at the bottom of the sea, and still, day
by day, it grinds on; and that is why the sea is salt.(1)


(1) Asbjornsen and Moe.




THE MASTER CAT; OR, PUSS IN BOOTS


There was a miller who left no more estate to the three sons he had than
his mill, his ass, and his cat. The partition was soon made. Neither
scrivener nor attorney was sent for. They would soon have eaten up all
the poor patrimony. The eldest had the mill, the second the ass, and
the youngest nothing but the cat. The poor young fellow was quite
comfortless at having so poor a lot.

"My brothers," said he, "may get their living handsomely enough by
joining their stocks together; but for my part, when I have eaten up my
cat, and made me a muff of his skin, I must die of hunger."

The Cat, who heard all this, but made as if he did not, said to him with
a grave and serious air:

"Do not thus afflict yourself, my good master. You have nothing else to
do but to give me a bag and get a pair of boots made for me that I may
scamper through the dirt and the brambles, and you shall see that you
have not so bad a portion in me as you imagine."

The Cat's master did not build very much upon what he said. He had often
seen him play a great many cunning tricks to catch rats and mice, as
when he used to hang by the heels, or hide himself in the meal, and
make as if he were dead; so that he did not altogether despair of his
affording him some help in his miserable condition. When the Cat had
what he asked for he booted himself very gallantly, and putting his bag
about his neck, he held the strings of it in his two forepaws and went
into a warren where was great abundance of rabbits. He put bran and
sow-thistle into his bag, and stretching out at length, as if he had
been dead, he waited for some young rabbits, not yet acquainted with the
deceits of the world, to come and rummage his bag for what he had put
into it.

Scarce was he lain down but he had what he wanted. A rash and foolish
young rabbit jumped into his bag, and Monsieur Puss, immediately drawing
close the strings, took and killed him without pity. Proud of his prey,
he went with it to the palace and asked to speak with his majesty.
He was shown upstairs into the King's apartment, and, making a low
reverence, said to him:

"I have brought you, sir, a rabbit of the warren, which my noble lord
the Marquis of Carabas" (for that was the title which puss was pleased
to give his master) "has commanded me to present to your majesty from
him."

"Tell thy master," said the king, "that I thank him and that he does me
a great deal of pleasure."

Another time he went and hid himself among some standing corn, holding
still his bag open, and when a brace of partridges ran into it he drew
the strings and so caught them both. He went and made a present of these
to the king, as he had done before of the rabbit which he took in the
warren. The king, in like manner, received the partridges with great
pleasure, and ordered him some money for drink.

The Cat continued for two or three months thus to carry his Majesty,
from time to time, game of his master's taking. One day in particular,
when he knew for certain that he was to take the air along the
river-side, with his daughter, the most beautiful princess in the world,
he said to his master:

"If you will follow my advice your fortune is made. You have nothing
else to do but go and wash yourself in the river, in that part I shall
show you, and leave the rest to me."

The Marquis of Carabas did what the Cat advised him to, without knowing
why or wherefore. While he was washing the King passed by, and the Cat
began to cry out:

"Help! help! My Lord Marquis of Carabas is going to be drowned."

At this noise the King put his head out of the coach-window, and,
finding it was the Cat who had so often brought him such good game,
he commanded his guards to run immediately to the assistance of his
Lordship the Marquis of Carabas. While they were drawing the poor
Marquis out of the river, the Cat came up to the coach and told the King
that, while his master was washing, there came by some rogues, who
went off with his clothes, though he had cried out: "Thieves! thieves!"
several times, as loud as he could.

This cunning Cat had hidden them under a great stone. The King
immediately commanded the officers of his wardrobe to run and fetch one
of his best suits for the Lord Marquis of Carabas.

The King caressed him after a very extraordinary manner, and as the fine
clothes he had given him extremely set off his good mien (for he was
well made and very handsome in his person), the King's daughter took a
secret inclination to him, and the Marquis of Carabas had no sooner cast
two or three respectful and somewhat tender glances but she fell in love
with him to distraction. The King would needs have him come into the
coach and take part of the airing. The Cat, quite overjoyed to see his
project begin to succeed, marched on before, and, meeting with some
countrymen, who were mowing a meadow, he said to them:

"Good people, you who are mowing, if you do not tell the King that
the meadow you mow belongs to my Lord Marquis of Carabas, you shall be
chopped as small as herbs for the pot."

The King did not fail asking of the mowers to whom the meadow they were
mowing belonged.

"To my Lord Marquis of Carabas," answered they altogether, for the Cat's
threats had made them terribly afraid.

"You see, sir," said the Marquis, "this is a meadow which never fails to
yield a plentiful harvest every year."

The Master Cat, who went still on before, met with some reapers, and
said to them:

"Good people, you who are reaping, if you do not tell the King that all
this corn belongs to the Marquis of Carabas, you shall be chopped as
small as herbs for the pot."

The King, who passed by a moment after, would needs know to whom all
that corn, which he then saw, did belong.

"To my Lord Marquis of Carabas," replied the reapers, and the King was
very well pleased with it, as well as the Marquis, whom he congratulated
thereupon. The Master Cat, who went always before, said the same words
to all he met, and the King was astonished at the vast estates of my
Lord Marquis of Carabas.

Monsieur Puss came at last to a stately castle, the master of which was
an ogre, the richest had ever been known; for all the lands which the
King had then gone over belonged to this castle. The Cat, who had taken
care to inform himself who this ogre was and what he could do, asked
to speak with him, saying he could not pass so near his castle without
having the honor of paying his respects to him.

The ogre received him as civilly as an ogre could do, and made him sit
down.

"I have been assured," said the Cat, "that you have the gift of being
able to change yourself into all sorts of creatures you have a mind to;
you can, for example, transform yourself into a lion, or elephant, and
the like."

"That is true," answered the ogre very briskly; "and to convince you,
you shall see me now become a lion."

Puss was so sadly terrified at the sight of a lion so near him that he
immediately got into the gutter, not without abundance of trouble and
danger, because of his boots, which were of no use at all to him in
walking upon the tiles. A little while after, when Puss saw that the
ogre had resumed his natural form, he came down, and owned he had been
very much frightened.

"I have been, moreover, informed," said the Cat, "but I know not how to
believe it, that you have also the power to take on you the shape of the
smallest animals; for example, to change yourself into a rat or a mouse;
but I must own to you I take this to be impossible."

"Impossible!" cried the ogre; "you shall see that presently."

And at the same time he changed himself into a mouse, and began to run
about the floor. Puss no sooner perceived this but he fell upon him and
ate him up.

Meanwhile the King, who saw, as he passed, this fine castle of the
ogre's, had a mind to go into it. Puss, who heard the noise of his
Majesty's coach running over the draw-bridge, ran out, and said to the
King:

"Your Majesty is welcome to this castle of my Lord Marquis of Carabas."

"What! my Lord Marquis," cried the King, "and does this castle also
belong to you? There can be nothing finer than this court and all the
stately buildings which surround it; let us go into it, if you please."

The Marquis gave his hand to the Princess, and followed the King,
who went first. They passed into a spacious hall, where they found a
magnificent collation, which the ogre had prepared for his friends, who
were that very day to visit him, but dared not to enter, knowing
the King was there. His Majesty was perfectly charmed with the good
qualities of my Lord Marquis of Carabas, as was his daughter, who
had fallen violently in love with him, and, seeing the vast estate he
possessed, said to him, after having drunk five or six glasses:

"It will be owing to yourself only, my Lord Marquis, if you are not my
son-in-law."

The Marquis, making several low bows, accepted the honor which his
Majesty conferred upon him, and forthwith, that very same day, married
the Princess.

Puss became a great lord, and never ran after mice any more but only for
his diversion.(1)


(1) Charles Perrault.




FELICIA AND THE POT OF PINKS


Once upon a time there was a poor laborer who, feeling that he had not
much longer to live, wished to divide his possessions between his son
and daughter, whom he loved dearly.

So he called them to him, and said: "Your mother brought me as her dowry
two stools and a straw bed; I have, besides, a hen, a pot of pinks, and
a silver ring, which were given me by a noble lady who once lodged in my
poor cottage. When she went away she said to me:

"'Be careful of my gifts, good man; see that you do not lose the ring or
forget to water the pinks. As for your daughter, I promise you that she
shall be more beautiful than anyone you ever saw in your life; call her
Felicia, and when she grows up give her the ring and the pot of pinks to
console her for her poverty.' Take them both, then, my dear child," he
added, "and your brother shall have everything else."

The two children seemed quite contented, and when their father died they
wept for him, and divided his possessions as he had told them. Felicia
believed that her brother loved her, but when she sat down upon one of
the stools he said angrily:

"Keep your pot of pinks and your ring, but let my things alone. I like
order in my house."

Felicia, who was very gentle, said nothing, but stood up crying quietly;
while Bruno, for that was her brother's name, sat comfortably by the
fire. Presently, when supper-time came, Bruno had a delicious egg, and
he threw the shell to Felicia, saying:

"There, that is all I can give you; if you don't like it, go out and
catch frogs; there are plenty of them in the marsh close by." Felicia
did not answer, but she cried more bitterly than ever, and went away
to her own little room. She found it filled with the sweet scent of the
pinks, and, going up to them, she said sadly:

"Beautiful pinks, you are so sweet and so pretty, you are the only
comfort I have left. Be very sure that I will take care of you, and
water you well, and never allow any cruel hand to tear you from your
stems."

As she leaned over them she noticed that they were very dry. So taking
her pitcher, she ran off in the clear moonlight to the fountain, which
was at some distance. When she reached it she sat down upon the brink
to rest, but she had hardly done so when she saw a stately lady coming
toward her, surrounded by numbers of attendants. Six maids of honor
carried her train, and she leaned upon the arm of another.

When they came near the fountain a canopy was spread for her, under
which was placed a sofa of cloth-of-gold, and presently a dainty supper
was served, upon a table covered with dishes of gold and crystal, while
the wind in the trees and the falling water of the fountain murmured the
softest music.

Felicia was hidden in the shade, too much astonished by all she saw to
venture to move; but in a few moments the Queen said:

"I fancy I see a shepherdess near that tree; bid her come hither."

So Felicia came forward and saluted the Queen timidly, but with so much
grace that all were surprised.

"What are you doing here, my pretty child?" asked the Queen. "Are you
not afraid of robbers?"

"Ah! madam," said Felicia, "a poor shepherdess who has nothing to lose
does not fear robbers."

"You are not very rich, then?" said the Queen, smiling.

"I am so poor," answered Felicia, "that a pot of pinks and a silver ring
are my only possessions in the world."

"But you have a heart," said the Queen. "What should you say if anybody
wanted to steal that?"

"I do not know what it is like to lose one's heart, madam," she replied;
"but I have always heard that without a heart one cannot live, and if it
is broken one must die; and in spite of my poverty I should be sorry not
to live."

"You are quite right to take care of your heart, pretty one," said the
Queen. "But tell me, have you supped?"

"No, madam," answered Felicia; "my brother ate all the supper there
was."

Then the Queen ordered that a place should be made for her at the table,
and herself loaded Felicia's plate with good things; but she was too
much astonished to be hungry.

"I want to know what you were doing at the fountain so late?" said the
Queen presently.

"I came to fetch a pitcher of water for my pinks, madam," she answered,
stooping to pick up the pitcher which stood beside her; but when she
showed it to the Queen she was amazed to see that it had turned to gold,
all sparkling with great diamonds, and the water, of which it was full,
was more fragrant than the sweetest roses. She was afraid to take it
until the Queen said:

"It is yours, Felicia; go and water your pinks with it, and let it
remind you that the Queen of the Woods is your friend."

The shepherdess threw herself at the Queen's feet, and thanked her
humbly for her gracious words.

"Ah! madam," she cried, "if I might beg you to stay here a moment I
would run and fetch my pot of pinks for you--they could not fall into
better hands."

"Go, Felicia," said the Queen, stroking her cheek softly; "I will wait
here until you come back."

So Felicia took up her pitcher and ran to her little room, but while she
had been away Bruno had gone in and taken the pot of pinks, leaving a
great cabbage in its place. When she saw the unlucky cabbage Felicia was
much distressed, and did not know what to do; but at last she ran back
to the fountain, and, kneeling before the Queen, said:

"Madam, Bruno has stolen my pot of pinks, so I have nothing but my
silver ring; but I beg you to accept it as a proof of my gratitude."

"But if I take your ring, my pretty shepherdess," said the Queen, "you
will have nothing left; and what will you do then?"

"Ah! madam," she answered simply, "if I have your friendship I shall do
very well."

So the Queen took the ring and put it on her finger, and mounted her
chariot, which was made of coral studded with emeralds, and drawn by six
milk-white horses. And Felicia looked after her until the winding of
the forest path hid her from her sight, and then she went back to the
cottage, thinking over all the wonderful things that had happened.

The first thing she did when she reached her room was to throw the
cabbage out of the window.

But she was very much surprised to hear an odd little voice cry out:
"Oh! I am half killed!" and could not tell where it came from, because
cabbages do not generally speak.

As soon as it was light, Felicia, who was very unhappy about her pot of
pinks, went out to look for it, and the first thing she found was the
unfortunate cabbage. She gave it a push with her foot, saying: "What are
you doing here, and how dared you put yourself in the place of my pot of
pinks?"

"If I hadn't been carried," replied the cabbage, "you may be very sure
that I shouldn't have thought of going there."

It made her shiver with fright to hear the cabbage talk, but he went on:

"If you will be good enough to plant me by my comrades again, I can tell
you where your pinks are at this moment--hidden in Bruno's bed!"

Felicia was in despair when she heard this, not knowing how she was
to get them back. But she replanted the cabbage very kindly in his old
place, and, as she finished doing it, she saw Bruno's hen, and said,
catching hold of it:

"Come here, horrid little creature! you shall suffer for all the unkind
things my brother has done to me."

"Ah! shepherdess," said the hen, "don't kill me; I am rather a gossip,
and I can tell you some surprising things that you will like to hear.
Don't imagine that you are the daughter of the poor laborer who brought
you up; your mother was a queen who had six girls already, and the King
threatened that unless she had a son who could inherit his kingdom she
should have her head cut off.

"So when the Queen had another little daughter she was quite frightened,
and agreed with her sister (who was a fairy) to exchange her for the
fairy's little son. Now the Queen had been shut up in a great tower
by the King's orders, and when a great many days went by and still she
heard nothing from the Fairy she made her escape from the window by
means of a rope ladder, taking her little baby with her. After wandering
about until she was half dead with cold and fatigue she reached this
cottage. I was the laborer's wife, and was a good nurse, and the Queen
gave you into my charge, and told me all her misfortunes, and then died
before she had time to say what was to become of you.

"As I never in all my life could keep a secret, I could not help telling
this strange tale to my neighbors, and one day a beautiful lady came
here, and I told it to her also. When I had finished she touched me with
a wand she held in her hand, and instantly I became a hen, and there was
an end of my talking! I was very sad, and my husband, who was out
when it happened, never knew what had become of me. After seeking me
everywhere he believed that I must have been drowned, or eaten up by
wild beasts in the forest. That same lady came here once more, and
commanded that you should be called Felicia, and left the ring and
the pot of pinks to be given to you; and while she was in the house
twenty-five of the King's guards came to search for you, doubtless
meaning to kill you; but she muttered a few words, and immediately they
all turned into cabbages. It was one of them whom you threw out of your
window yesterday.

"I don't know how it was that he could speak--I have never heard either
of them say a word before, nor have I been able to do it myself until
now."

The Princess was greatly astonished at the hen's story, and said kindly:
"I am truly sorry for you, my poor nurse, and wish it was in my power to
restore you to your real form. But we must not despair; it seems to
me, after what you have told me, that something must be going to happen
soon. Just now, however, I must go and look for my pinks, which I love
better than anything in the world."

Bruno had gone out into the forest, never thinking that Felicia
would search in his room for the pinks, and she was delighted by
his unexpected absence, and thought to get them back without further
trouble. But as soon as she entered the room she saw a terrible army
of rats, who were guarding the straw bed; and when she attempted to
approach it they sprang at her, biting and scratching furiously. Quite
terrified, she drew back, crying out: "Oh! my dear pinks, how can you
stay here in such bad company?"

Then she suddenly bethought herself of the pitcher of water, and, hoping
that it might have some magic power, she ran to fetch it, and sprinkled
a few drops over the fierce-looking swarm of rats. In a moment not a
tail or a whisker was to be seen. Each one had made for his hole as fast
as his legs could carry him, so that the Princess could safely take her
pot of pinks. She found them nearly dying for want of water, and hastily
poured all that was left in the pitcher upon them. As she bent over
them, enjoying their delicious scent, a soft voice, that seemed to
rustle among the leaves, said:

"Lovely Felicia, the day has come at last when I may have the happiness
of telling you how even the flowers love you and rejoice in your
beauty."

The Princess, quite overcome by the strangeness of hearing a cabbage,
a hen, and a pink speak, and by the terrible sight of an army of rats,
suddenly became very pale, and fainted away.

At this moment in came Bruno. Working hard in the heat had not improved
his temper, and when he saw that Felicia had succeeded in finding her
pinks he was so angry that he dragged her out into the garden and shut
the door upon her. The fresh air soon made her open her pretty eyes, and
there before her stood the Queen of the Woods, looking as charming as
ever.

"You have a bad brother," she said; "I saw he turned you out. Shall I
punish him for it?"

"Ah! no, madam," she said; "I am not angry with him.

"But supposing he was not your brother, after all, what would you say
then?" asked the Queen.

"Oh! but I think he must be," said Felicia.

"What!" said the Queen, "have you not heard that you are a Princess?"

"I was told so a little while ago, madam, but how could I believe it
without a single proof?"

"Ah! dear child," said the Queen, "the way you speak assures me that, in
spite of your humble upbringing, you are indeed a real princess, and I
can save you from being treated in such a way again."

She was interrupted at this moment by the arrival of a very handsome
young man. He wore a coat of green velvet fastened with emerald clasps,
and had a crown of pinks on his head. He knelt upon one knee and kissed
the Queen's hand.

"Ah!" she cried, "my pink, my dear son, what a happiness to see you
restored to your natural shape by Felicia's aid!" And she embraced him
joyfully. Then, turning to Felicia, she said:

"Charming Princess, I know all the hen told you, but you cannot have
heard that the zephyrs, to whom was entrusted the task of carrying my
son to the tower where the Queen, your mother, so anxiously waited for
him, left him instead in a garden of flowers, while they flew off to
tell your mother. Whereupon a fairy with whom I had quarrelled changed
him into a pink, and I could do nothing to prevent it.

"You can imagine how angry I was, and how I tried to find some means of
undoing the mischief she had done; but there was no help for it. I could
only bring Prince Pink to the place where you were being brought up,
hoping that when you grew up he might love you, and by your care be
restored to his natural form. And you see everything has come right, as
I hoped it would. Your giving me the silver ring was the sign that the
power of the charm was nearly over, and my enemy's last chance was to
frighten you with her army of rats. That she did not succeed in doing;
so now, my dear Felicia, if you will be married to my son with this
silver ring your future happiness is certain. Do you think him handsome
and amiable enough to be willing to marry him?"

"Madam," replied Felicia, blushing, "you overwhelm me with your
kindness. I know that you are my mother's sister, and that by your art
you turned the soldiers who were sent to kill me into cabbages, and my
nurse into a hen, and that you do me only too much honor in proposing
that I shall marry your son. How can I explain to you the cause of my
hesitation? I feel, for the first time in my life, how happy it would
make me to be beloved. Can you indeed give me the Prince's heart?"

"It is yours already, lovely Princess!" he cried, taking her hand in
his; "but for the horrible enchantment which kept me silent I should
have told you long ago how dearly I love you."

This made the Princess very happy, and the Queen, who could not bear
to see her dressed like a poor shepherdess, touched her with her wand,
saying:

"I wish you to be attired as befits your rank and beauty." And
immediately the Princess's cotton dress became a magnificent robe of
silver brocade embroidered with carbuncles, and her soft dark hair was
encircled by a crown of diamonds, from which floated a clear white veil.
With her bright eyes, and the charming color in her cheeks, she was
altogether such a dazzling sight that the Prince could hardly bear it.

"How pretty you are, Felicia!" he cried. "Don't keep me in suspense, I
entreat you; say that you will marry me."

"Ah!" said the Queen, smiling, "I think she will not refuse now."

Just then Bruno, who was going back to his work, came out of the
cottage, and thought he must be dreaming when he saw Felicia; but she
called him very kindly, and begged the Queen to take pity on him.

"What!" she said, "when he was so unkind to you?"

"Ah! madam," said the Princess, "I am so happy that I should like
everybody else to be happy too."

The Queen kissed her, and said: "Well, to please you, let me see what I
can do for this cross Bruno." And with a wave of her wand she turned the
poor little cottage into a splendid palace, full of treasures; only the
two stools and the straw bed remained just as they were, to remind him
of his former poverty. Then the Queen touched Bruno himself, and made
him gentle and polite and grateful, and he thanked her and the Princess
a thousand times. Lastly, the Queen restored the hen and the cabbages
to their natural forms, and left them all very contented. The Prince and
Princess were married as soon as possible with great splendor, and lived
happily ever after.(1)


(1) Fortunee. Par Madame la Comtesse d'Aulnoy.




THE WHITE CAT


Once upon a time there was a king who had three sons, who were all so
clever and brave that he began to be afraid that they would want to
reign over the kingdom before he was dead. Now the King, though he felt
that he was growing old, did not at all wish to give up the government
of his kingdom while he could still manage it very well, so he thought
the best way to live in peace would be to divert the minds of his sons
by promises which he could always get out of when the time came for
keeping them.

So he sent for them all, and, after speaking to them kindly, he added:

"You will quite agree with me, my dear children, that my great age makes
it impossible for me to look after my affairs of state as carefully as
I once did. I begin to fear that this may affect the welfare of my
subjects, therefore I wish that one of you should succeed to my crown;
but in return for such a gift as this it is only right that you should
do something for me. Now, as I think of retiring into the country, it
seems to me that a pretty, lively, faithful little dog would be very
good company for me; so, without any regard for your ages, I promise
that the one who brings me the most beautiful little dog shall succeed
me at once."

The three Princes were greatly surprised by their father's sudden fancy
for a little dog, but as it gave the two younger ones a chance they
would not otherwise have had of being king, and as the eldest was
too polite to make any objection, they accepted the commission with
pleasure. They bade farewell to the King, who gave them presents of
silver and precious stones, and appointed to meet them at the same hour,
in the same place, after a year had passed, to see the little dogs they
had brought for him.

Then they went together to a castle which was about a league from the
city, accompanied by all their particular friends, to whom they gave a
grand banquet, and the three brothers promised to be friends always,
to share whatever good fortune befell them, and not to be parted by
any envy or jealousy; and so they set out, agreeing to meet at the same
castle at the appointed time, to present themselves before the King
together. Each one took a different road, and the two eldest met with
many adventures; but it is about the youngest that you are going to
hear. He was young, and gay, and handsome, and knew everything that a
prince ought to know; and as for his courage, there was simply no end to
it.

Hardly a day passed without his buying several dogs--big and little,
greyhounds, mastiffs, spaniels, and lapdogs. As soon as he had bought a
pretty one he was sure to see a still prettier, and then he had to get
rid of all the others and buy that one, as, being alone, he found it
impossible to take thirty or forty thousand dogs about with him. He
journeyed from day to day, not knowing where he was going, until at
last, just at nightfall, he reached a great, gloomy forest. He did not
know his way, and, to make matters worse, it began to thunder, and
the rain poured down. He took the first path he could find, and after
walking for a long time he fancied he saw a faint light, and began to
hope that he was coming to some cottage where he might find shelter for
the night. At length, guided by the light, he reached the door of the
most splendid castle he could have imagined. This door was of gold
covered with carbuncles, and it was the pure red light which shone from
them that had shown him the way through the forest. The walls were of
the finest porcelain in all the most delicate colors, and the Prince saw
that all the stories he had ever read were pictured upon them; but as he
was terribly wet, and the rain still fell in torrents, he could not stay
to look about any more, but came back to the golden door. There he saw
a deer's foot hanging by a chain of diamonds, and he began to wonder who
could live in this magnificent castle.

"They must feel very secure against robbers," he said to himself. "What
is to hinder anyone from cutting off that chain and digging out those
carbuncles, and making himself rich for life?"

He pulled the deer's foot, and immediately a silver bell sounded and the
door flew open, but the Prince could see nothing but numbers of hands
in the air, each holding a torch. He was so much surprised that he stood
quite still, until he felt himself pushed forward by other hands, so
that, though he was somewhat uneasy, he could not help going on. With
his hand on his sword, to be prepared for whatever might happen, he
entered a hall paved with lapis-lazuli, while two lovely voices sang:


     "The hands you see floating above
       Will swiftly your bidding obey;
     If your heart dreads not conquering Love,
       In this place you may fearlessly stay."


The Prince could not believe that any danger threatened him when he was
welcomed in this way, so, guided by the mysterious hands, he went toward
a door of coral, which opened of its own accord, and he found himself
in a vast hall of mother-of-pearl, out of which opened a number of other
rooms, glittering with thousands of lights, and full of such beautiful
pictures and precious things that the Prince felt quite bewildered.
After passing through sixty rooms the hands that conducted him stopped,
and the Prince saw a most comfortable-looking arm-chair drawn up close
to the chimney-corner; at the same moment the fire lighted itself, and
the pretty, soft, clever hands took off the Prince's wet, muddy clothes,
and presented him with fresh ones made of the richest stuffs, all
embroidered with gold and emeralds. He could not help admiring
everything he saw, and the deft way in which the hands waited on him,
though they sometimes appeared so suddenly that they made him jump.

When he was quite ready--and I can assure you that he looked very
different from the wet and weary Prince who had stood outside in the
rain, and pulled the deer's foot--the hands led him to a splendid room,
upon the walls of which were painted the histories of Puss in Boots and
a number of other famous cats. The table was laid for supper with
two golden plates, and golden spoons and forks, and the sideboard was
covered with dishes and glasses of crystal set with precious stones. The
Prince was wondering who the second place could be for, when suddenly
in came about a dozen cats carrying guitars and rolls of music, who took
their places at one end of the room, and under the direction of a cat
who beat time with a roll of paper began to mew in every imaginable key,
and to draw their claws across the strings of the guitars, making the
strangest kind of music that could be heard. The Prince hastily stopped
up his ears, but even then the sight of these comical musicians sent him
into fits of laughter.

"What funny thing shall I see next?" he said to himself, and instantly
the door opened, and in came a tiny figure covered by a long black veil.
It was conducted by two cats wearing black mantles and carrying swords,
and a large party of cats followed, who brought in cages full of rats
and mice.

The Prince was so much astonished that he thought he must be dreaming,
but the little figure came up to him and threw back its veil, and he saw
that it was the loveliest little white cat it is possible to imagine.
She looked very young and very sad, and in a sweet little voice that
went straight to his heart she said to the Prince:

"King's son, you are welcome; the Queen of the Cats is glad to see you."

"Lady Cat," replied the Prince, "I thank you for receiving me so kindly,
but surely you are no ordinary pussy-cat? Indeed, the way you speak and
the magnificence of your castle prove it plainly."

"King's son," said the White Cat, "I beg you to spare me these
compliments, for I am not used to them. But now," she added, "let supper
be served, and let the musicians be silent, as the Prince does not
understand what they are saying."

So the mysterious hands began to bring in the supper, and first they put
on the table two dishes, one containing stewed pigeons and the other a
fricassee of fat mice. The sight of the latter made the Prince feel as
if he could not enjoy his supper at all; but the White Cat, seeing this,
assured him that the dishes intended for him were prepared in a separate
kitchen, and he might be quite certain that they contained neither rats
nor mice; and the Prince felt so sure that she would not deceive him
that he had no more hesitation in beginning. Presently he noticed
that on the little paw that was next him the White Cat wore a bracelet
containing a portrait, and he begged to be allowed to look at it. To his
great surprise he found it represented an extremely handsome young man,
who was so like himself that it might have been his own portrait! The
White Cat sighed as he looked at it, and seemed sadder than ever, and
the Prince dared not ask any questions for fear of displeasing her; so
he began to talk about other things, and found that she was interested
in all the subjects he cared for himself, and seemed to know quite well
what was going on in the world. After supper they went into another
room, which was fitted up as a theatre, and the cats acted and danced
for their amusement, and then the White Cat said good-night to him, and
the hands conducted him into a room he had not seen before, hung with
tapestry worked with butterflies' wings of every color; there were
mirrors that reached from the ceiling to the floor, and a little white
bed with curtains of gauze tied up with ribbons. The Prince went to bed
in silence, as he did not quite know how to begin a conversation with
the hands that waited on him, and in the morning he was awakened by
a noise and confusion outside of his window, and the hands came and
quickly dressed him in hunting costume. When he looked out all the cats
were assembled in the courtyard, some leading greyhounds, some blowing
horns, for the White Cat was going out hunting. The hands led a wooden
horse up to the Prince, and seemed to expect him to mount it, at which
he was very indignant; but it was no use for him to object, for he
speedily found himself upon its back, and it pranced gaily off with him.

The White Cat herself was riding a monkey, which climbed even up to
the eagles' nests when she had a fancy for the young eaglets. Never was
there a pleasanter hunting party, and when they returned to the castle
the Prince and the White Cat supped together as before, but when they
had finished she offered him a crystal goblet, which must have contained
a magic draught, for, as soon as he had swallowed its contents, he
forgot everything, even the little dog that he was seeking for the King,
and only thought how happy he was to be with the White Cat! And so the
days passed, in every kind of amusement, until the year was nearly gone.
The Prince had forgotten all about meeting his brothers: he did not even
know what country he belonged to; but the White Cat knew when he ought
to go back, and one day she said to him:

"Do you know that you have only three days left to look for the little
dog for your father, and your brothers have found lovely ones?"

Then the Prince suddenly recovered his memory, and cried:

"What can have made me forget such an important thing? My whole fortune
depends upon it; and even if I could in such a short time find a dog
pretty enough to gain me a kingdom, where should I find a horse who
would carry me all that way in three days?" And he began to be very
vexed. But the White Cat said to him: "King's son, do not trouble
yourself; I am your friend, and will make everything easy for you. You
can still stay here for a day, as the good wooden horse can take you to
your country in twelve hours."

"I thank you, beautiful Cat," said the Prince; "but what good will it do
me to get back if I have not a dog to take to my father?"

"See here," answered the White Cat, holding up an acorn; "there is a
prettier one in this than in the Dogstar!"

"Oh! White Cat dear," said the Prince, "how unkind you are to laugh at
me now!"

"Only listen," she said, holding the acorn to his ear.

And inside it he distinctly heard a tiny voice say: "Bow-wow!"

The Prince was delighted, for a dog that can be shut up in an acorn must
be very small indeed. He wanted to take it out and look at it, but the
White Cat said it would be better not to open the acorn till he was
before the King, in case the tiny dog should be cold on the journey. He
thanked her a thousand times, and said good-by quite sadly when the time
came for him to set out.

"The days have passed so quickly with you," he said, "I only wish I
could take you with me now."

But the White Cat shook her head and sighed deeply in answer.

After all the Prince was the first to arrive at the castle where he had
agreed to meet his brothers, but they came soon after, and stared in
amazement when they saw the wooden horse in the courtyard jumping like a
hunter.

The Prince met them joyfully, and they began to tell him all their
adventures; but he managed to hide from them what he had been doing, and
even led them to think that a turnspit dog which he had with him was the
one he was bringing for the King. Fond as they all were of one another,
the two eldest could not help being glad to think that their dogs
certainly had a better chance. The next morning they started in the same
chariot. The elder brothers carried in baskets two such tiny, fragile
dogs that they hardly dared to touch them. As for the turnspit, he ran
after the chariot, and got so covered with mud that one could hardly see
what he was like at all. When they reached the palace everyone crowded
round to welcome them as they went into the King's great hall; and when
the two brothers presented their little dogs nobody could decide which
was the prettier. They were already arranging between themselves to
share the kingdom equally, when the youngest stepped forward, drawing
from his pocket the acorn the White Cat had given him. He opened it
quickly, and there upon a white cushion they saw a dog so small that it
could easily have been put through a ring. The Prince laid it upon the
ground, and it got up at once and began to dance. The King did not know
what to say, for it was impossible that anything could be prettier than
this little creature. Nevertheless, as he was in no hurry to part with
his crown, he told his sons that, as they had been so successful the
first time, he would ask them to go once again, and seek by land and sea
for a piece of muslin so fine that it could be drawn through the eye of
a needle. The brothers were not very willing to set out again, but
the two eldest consented because it gave them another chance, and they
started as before. The youngest again mounted the wooden horse, and rode
back at full speed to his beloved White Cat. Every door of the castle
stood wide open, and every window and turret was illuminated, so it
looked more wonderful than before. The hands hastened to meet him, and
led the wooden horse off to the stable, while he hurried in to find the
White Cat. She was asleep in a little basket on a white satin cushion,
but she very soon started up when she heard the Prince, and was
overjoyed at seeing him once more.

"How could I hope that you would come back to me King's son?" she said.
And then he stroked and petted her, and told her of his successful
journey, and how he had come back to ask her help, as he believed that
it was impossible to find what the King demanded. The White Cat looked
serious, and said she must think what was to be done, but that, luckily,
there were some cats in the castle who could spin very well, and if
anybody could manage it they could, and she would set them the task
herself.

And then the hands appeared carrying torches, and conducted the Prince
and the White Cat to a long gallery which overlooked the river, from
the windows of which they saw a magnificent display of fireworks of all
sorts; after which they had supper, which the Prince liked even better
than the fireworks, for it was very late, and he was hungry after his
long ride. And so the days passed quickly as before; it was impossible
to feel dull with the White Cat, and she had quite a talent for
inventing new amusements--indeed, she was cleverer than a cat has any
right to be. But when the Prince asked her how it was that she was so
wise, she only said:

"King's son, do not ask me; guess what you please. I may not tell you
anything."

The Prince was so happy that he did not trouble himself at all about the
time, but presently the White Cat told him that the year was gone, and
that he need not be at all anxious about the piece of muslin, as they
had made it very well.

"This time," she added, "I can give you a suitable escort"; and on
looking out into the courtyard the Prince saw a superb chariot of
burnished gold, enameled in flame color with a thousand different
devices. It was drawn by twelve snow-white horses, harnessed four
abreast; their trappings were flame-colored velvet, embroidered with
diamonds. A hundred chariots followed, each drawn by eight horses,
and filled with officers in splendid uniforms, and a thousand guards
surrounded the procession. "Go!" said the White Cat, "and when you
appear before the King in such state he surely will not refuse you the
crown which you deserve. Take this walnut, but do not open it until you
are before him, then you will find in it the piece of stuff you asked me
for."

"Lovely Blanchette," said the Prince, "how can I thank you properly for
all your kindness to me? Only tell me that you wish it, and I will
give up for ever all thought of being king, and will stay here with you
always."

"King's son," she replied, "it shows the goodness of your heart that you
should care so much for a little white cat, who is good for nothing but
to catch mice; but you must not stay."

So the Prince kissed her little paw and set out. You can imagine how
fast he traveled when I tell you that they reached the King's palace in
just half the time it had taken the wooden horse to get there. This time
the Prince was so late that he did not try to meet his brothers at their
castle, so they thought he could not be coming, and were rather glad of
it, and displayed their pieces of muslin to the King proudly, feeling
sure of success. And indeed the stuff was very fine, and would go
through the eye of a very large needle; but the King, who was only too
glad to make a difficulty, sent for a particular needle, which was kept
among the Crown jewels, and had such a small eye that everybody saw at
once that it was impossible that the muslin should pass through it. The
Princes were angry, and were beginning to complain that it was a trick,
when suddenly the trumpets sounded and the youngest Prince came in. His
father and brothers were quite astonished at his magnificence, and after
he had greeted them he took the walnut from his pocket and opened it,
fully expecting to find the piece of muslin, but instead there was only
a hazel-nut. He cracked it, and there lay a cherry-stone. Everybody was
looking on, and the King was chuckling to himself at the idea of finding
the piece of muslin in a nutshell.

However, the Prince cracked the cherry-stone, but everyone laughed when
he saw it contained only its own kernel. He opened that and found a
grain of wheat, and in that was a millet seed. Then he himself began to
wonder, and muttered softly:

"White Cat, White Cat, are you making fun of me?"

In an instant he felt a cat's claw give his hand quite a sharp scratch,
and hoping that it was meant as an encouragement he opened the millet
seed, and drew out of it a piece of muslin four hundred ells long, woven
with the loveliest colors and most wonderful patterns; and when the
needle was brought it went through the eye six times with the greatest
ease! The King turned pale, and the other Princes stood silent and
sorrowful, for nobody could deny that this was the most marvelous piece
of muslin that was to be found in the world.

Presently the King turned to his sons, and said, with a deep sigh:

"Nothing could console me more in my old age than to realize your
willingness to gratify my wishes. Go then once more, and whoever at the
end of a year can bring back the loveliest princess shall be married
to her, and shall, without further delay, receive the crown, for my
successor must certainly be married." The Prince considered that he had
earned the kingdom fairly twice over but still he was too well bred
to argue about it, so he just went back to his gorgeous chariot, and,
surrounded by his escort, returned to the White Cat faster than he had
come. This time she was expecting him, the path was strewn with flowers,
and a thousand braziers were burning scented woods which perfumed the
air. Seated in a gallery from which she could see his arrival, the White
Cat waited for him. "Well, King's son," she said, "here you are once
more, without a crown." "Madam," said he, "thanks to your generosity I
have earned one twice over; but the fact is that my father is so loth to
part with it that it would be no pleasure to me to take it."

"Never mind," she answered, "it's just as well to try and deserve it. As
you must take back a lovely princess with you next time I will be on
the look-out for one for you. In the meantime let us enjoy ourselves;
to-night I have ordered a battle between my cats and the river rats on
purpose to amuse you." So this year slipped away even more pleasantly
than the preceding ones. Sometimes the Prince could not help asking the
White Cat how it was she could talk.

"Perhaps you are a fairy," he said. "Or has some enchanter changed you
into a cat?"

But she only gave him answers that told him nothing. Days go by so
quickly when one is very happy that it is certain the Prince would never
have thought of its being time to go back, when one evening as they sat
together the White Cat said to him that if he wanted to take a lovely
princess home with him the next day he must be prepared to do what she
told him.

"Take this sword," she said, "and cut off my head!"

"I!" cried the Prince, "I cut off your head! Blanchette darling, how
could I do it?"

"I entreat you to do as I tell you, King's son," she replied.

The tears came into the Prince's eyes as he begged her to ask him
anything but that--to set him any task she pleased as a proof of his
devotion, but to spare him the grief of killing his dear Pussy. But
nothing he could say altered her determination, and at last he drew his
sword, and desperately, with a trembling hand, cut off the little white
head. But imagine his astonishment and delight when suddenly a lovely
princess stood before him, and, while he was still speechless with
amazement, the door opened and a goodly company of knights and ladies
entered, each carrying a cat's skin! They hastened with every sign of
joy to the Princess, kissing her hand and congratulating her on being
once more restored to her natural shape. She received them graciously,
but after a few minutes begged that they would leave her alone with the
Prince, to whom she said:

"You see, Prince, that you were right in supposing me to be no ordinary
cat. My father reigned over six kingdoms. The Queen, my mother, whom he
loved dearly, had a passion for traveling and exploring, and when I
was only a few weeks old she obtained his permission to visit a certain
mountain of which she had heard many marvelous tales, and set out,
taking with her a number of her attendants. On the way they had to pass
near an old castle belonging to the fairies. Nobody had ever been into
it, but it was reported to be full of the most wonderful things, and
my mother remembered to have heard that the fairies had in their garden
such fruits as were to be seen and tasted nowhere else. She began to
wish to try them for herself, and turned her steps in the direction of
the garden. On arriving at the door, which blazed with gold and jewels,
she ordered her servants to knock loudly, but it was useless; it seemed
as if all the inhabitants of the castle must be asleep or dead. Now the
more difficult it became to obtain the fruit, the more the Queen was
determined that have it she would. So she ordered that they should bring
ladders, and get over the wall into the garden; but though the wall did
not look very high, and they tied the ladders together to make them very
long, it was quite impossible to get to the top.

"The Queen was in despair, but as night was coming on she ordered
that they should encamp just where they were, and went to bed herself,
feeling quite ill, she was so disappointed. In the middle of the night
she was suddenly awakened, and saw to her surprise a tiny, ugly old
woman seated by her bedside, who said to her:

"'I must say that we consider it somewhat troublesome of your Majesty to
insist upon tasting our fruit; but to save you annoyance, my sisters
and I will consent to give you as much as you can carry away, on one
condition--that is, that you shall give us your little daughter to bring
up as our own.'

"'Ah! my dear madam,' cried the Queen, 'is there nothing else that you
will take for the fruit? I will give you my kingdoms willingly.'

"'No,' replied the old fairy, 'we will have nothing but your little
daughter. She shall be as happy as the day is long, and we will give her
everything that is worth having in fairy-land, but you must not see her
again until she is married.'

"'Though it is a hard condition,' said the Queen, 'I consent, for I
shall certainly die if I do not taste the fruit, and so I should lose my
little daughter either way.'

"So the old fairy led her into the castle, and, though it was still the
middle of the night, the Queen could see plainly that it was far more
beautiful than she had been told, which you can easily believe, Prince,"
said the White Cat, "when I tell you that it was this castle that we are
now in. 'Will you gather the fruit yourself, Queen?' said the old fairy,
'or shall I call it to come to you?'

"'I beg you to let me see it come when it is called,' cried the Queen;
'that will be something quite new.' The old fairy whistled twice, then
she cried:

"'Apricots, peaches, nectarines, cherries, plums, pears, melons, grapes,
apples, oranges, lemons, gooseberries, strawberries, raspberries, come!'

"And in an instant they came tumbling in one over another, and yet they
were neither dusty nor spoilt, and the Queen found them quite as good as
she had fancied them. You see they grew upon fairy trees.

"The old fairy gave her golden baskets in which to take the fruit away,
and it was as much as four hundred mules could carry. Then she reminded
the Queen of her agreement, and led her back to the camp, and next
morning she went back to her kingdom, but before she had gone very far
she began to repent of her bargain, and when the King came out to meet
her she looked so sad that he guessed that something had happened, and
asked what was the matter. At first the Queen was afraid to tell him,
but when, as soon as they reached the palace, five frightful little
dwarfs were sent by the fairies to fetch me, she was obliged to confess
what she had promised. The King was very angry, and had the Queen and
myself shut up in a great tower and safely guarded, and drove the little
dwarfs out of his kingdom; but the fairies sent a great dragon who ate
up all the people he met, and whose breath burnt up everything as he
passed through the country; and at last, after trying in vain to rid
himself of this monster, the King, to save his subjects, was obliged to
consent that I should be given up to the fairies. This time they came
themselves to fetch me, in a chariot of pearl drawn by sea-horses,
followed by the dragon, who was led with chains of diamonds. My cradle
was placed between the old fairies, who loaded me with caresses, and
away we whirled through the air to a tower which they had built on
purpose for me. There I grew up surrounded with everything that was
beautiful and rare, and learning everything that is ever taught to a
princess, but without any companions but a parrot and a little dog, who
could both talk; and receiving every day a visit from one of the old
fairies, who came mounted upon the dragon. One day, however, as I sat at
my window I saw a handsome young prince, who seemed to have been hunting
in the forest which surrounded my prison, and who was standing and
looking up at me. When he saw that I observed him he saluted me with
great deference. You can imagine that I was delighted to have some one
new to talk to, and in spite of the height of my window our conversation
was prolonged till night fell, then my prince reluctantly bade me
farewell. But after that he came again many times and at last I
consented to marry him, but the question was how was I to escape from my
tower. The fairies always supplied me with flax for my spinning, and by
great diligence I made enough cord for a ladder that would reach to
the foot of the tower; but, alas! just as my prince was helping me to
descend it, the crossest and ugliest of the old fairies flew in. Before
he had time to defend himself my unhappy lover was swallowed up by the
dragon. As for me, the fairies, furious at having their plans defeated,
for they intended me to marry the king of the dwarfs, and I utterly
refused, changed me into a white cat. When they brought me here I found
all the lords and ladies of my father's court awaiting me under the same
enchantment, while the people of lesser rank had been made invisible,
all but their hands.

"As they laid me under the enchantment the fairies told me all my
history, for until then I had quite believed that I was their child, and
warned me that my only chance of regaining my natural form was to win
the love of a prince who resembled in every way my unfortunate lover.

"And you have won it, lovely Princess," interrupted the Prince.

"You are indeed wonderfully like him," resumed the Princess--"in voice,
in features, and everything; and if you really love me all my troubles
will be at an end."

"And mine too," cried the Prince, throwing himself at her feet, "if you
will consent to marry me."

"I love you already better than anyone in the world," she said; "but
now it is time to go back to your father, and we shall hear what he says
about it."

So the Prince gave her his hand and led her out, and they mounted the
chariot together; it was even more splendid than before, and so was the
whole company. Even the horses' shoes were of rubies with diamond nails,
and I suppose that is the first time such a thing was ever seen.

As the Princess was as kind and clever as she was beautiful, you may
imagine what a delightful journey the Prince found it, for everything
the Princess said seemed to him quite charming.

When they came near the castle where the brothers were to meet, the
Princess got into a chair carried by four of the guards; it was hewn out
of one splendid crystal, and had silken curtains, which she drew round
her that she might not be seen.

The Prince saw his brothers walking upon the terrace, each with a lovely
princess, and they came to meet him, asking if he had also found a wife.
He said that he had found something much rarer--a white cat! At which
they laughed very much, and asked him if he was afraid of being eaten up
by mice in the palace. And then they set out together for the town. Each
prince and princess rode in a splendid carriage; the horses were decked
with plumes of feathers, and glittered with gold. After them came the
youngest prince, and last of all the crystal chair, at which everybody
looked with admiration and curiosity. When the courtiers saw them coming
they hastened to tell the King.

"Are the ladies beautiful?" he asked anxiously.

And when they answered that nobody had ever before seen such lovely
princesses he seemed quite annoyed.

However, he received them graciously, but found it impossible to choose
between them.

Then turning to his youngest son he said:

"Have you come back alone, after all?"

"Your Majesty," replied the Prince, "will find in that crystal chair a
little white cat, which has such soft paws, and mews so prettily, that I
am sure you will be charmed with it."

The King smiled, and went to draw back the curtains himself, but at a
touch from the Princess the crystal shivered into a thousand splinters,
and there she stood in all her beauty; her fair hair floated over her
shoulders and was crowned with flowers, and her softly falling robe was
of the purest white. She saluted the King gracefully, while a murmur of
admiration rose from all around.

"Sire," she said, "I am not come to deprive you of the throne you fill
so worthily. I have already six kingdoms, permit me to bestow one upon
you, and upon each of your sons. I ask nothing but your friendship, and
your consent to my marriage with your youngest son; we shall still have
three kingdoms left for ourselves."

The King and all the courtiers could not conceal their joy and
astonishment, and the marriage of the three Princes was celebrated at
once. The festivities lasted several months, and then each king and
queen departed to their own kingdom and lived happily ever after.(1)


(1) La Chatte blanche. Par Madame la Comtesse d'Aulnoy.




THE WATER-LILY. THE GOLD-SPINNERS


Once upon a time, in a large forest, there lived an old woman and
three maidens. They were all three beautiful, but the youngest was the
fairest. Their hut was quite hidden by trees, and none saw their beauty
but the sun by day, and the moon by night, and the eyes of the stars.
The old woman kept the girls hard at work, from morning till night,
spinning gold flax into yarn, and when one distaff was empty another was
given them, so they had no rest. The thread had to be fine and even, and
when done was locked up in a secret chamber by the old woman, who twice
or thrice every summer went a journey. Before she went she gave out work
for each day of her absence, and always returned in the night, so that
the girls never saw what she brought back with her, neither would she
tell them whence the gold flax came, nor what it was to be used for.

Now, when the time came round for the old woman to set out on one of
these journeys, she gave each maiden work for six days, with the usual
warning: "Children, don't let your eyes wander, and on no account speak
to a man, for, if you do, your thread will lose its brightness, and
misfortunes of all kinds will follow." They laughed at this oft-repeated
caution, saying to each other: "How can our gold thread lose its
brightness, and have we any chance of speaking to a man?"

On the third day after the old woman's departure a young prince, hunting
in the forest, got separated from his companions, and completely lost.
Weary of seeking his way, he flung himself down under a tree, leaving
his horse to browse at will, and fell asleep.

The sun had set when he awoke and began once more to try and find his
way out of the forest. At last he perceived a narrow foot-path, which he
eagerly followed and found that it led him to a small hut. The maidens,
who were sitting at the door of their hut for coolness, saw him
approaching, and the two elder were much alarmed, for they remembered
the old woman's warning; but the youngest said: "Never before have I
seen anyone like him; let me have one look." They entreated her to come
in, but, seeing that she would not, left her, and the Prince, coming up,
courteously greeted the maiden, and told her he had lost his way in the
forest and was both hungry and weary. She set food before him, and
was so delighted with his conversation that she forgot the old woman's
caution, and lingered for hours. In the meantime the Prince's companions
sought him far and wide, but to no purpose, so they sent two messengers
to tell the sad news to the King, who immediately ordered a regiment of
cavalry and one of infantry to go and look for him.

After three days' search, they found the hut. The Prince was still
sitting by the door and had been so happy in the maiden's company that
the time had seemed like a single hour. Before leaving he promised to
return and fetch her to his father's court, where he would make her his
bride. When he had gone, she sat down to her wheel to make up for
lost time, but was dismayed to find that her thread had lost all
its brightness. Her heart beat fast and she wept bitterly, for she
remembered the old woman's warning and knew not what misfortune might
now befall her.

The old woman returned in the night and knew by the tarnished thread
what had happened in her absence. She was furiously angry and told
the maiden that she had brought down misery both on herself and on the
Prince. The maiden could not rest for thinking of this. At last she
could bear it no longer, and resolved to seek help from the Prince.

As a child she had learned to understand the speech of birds, and this
was now of great use to her, for, seeing a raven pluming itself on a
pine bough, she cried softly to it: "Dear bird, cleverest of all birds,
as well as swiftest on wing, wilt thou help me?" "How can I help
thee?" asked the raven. She answered: "Fly away, until thou comest to a
splendid town, where stands a king's palace; seek out the king's son
and tell him that a great misfortune has befallen me." Then she told the
raven how her thread had lost its brightness, how terribly angry the old
woman was, and how she feared some great disaster. The raven promised
faithfully to do her bidding, and, spreading its wings, flew away. The
maiden now went home and worked hard all day at winding up the yarn her
elder sisters had spun, for the old woman would let her spin no longer.
Toward evening she heard the raven's "craa, craa," from the pine tree
and eagerly hastened thither to hear the answer.

By great good fortune the raven had found a wind wizard's son in the
palace garden, who understood the speech of birds, and to him he had
entrusted the message. When the Prince heard it, he was very sorrowful,
and took counsel with his friends how to free the maiden. Then he said
to the wind wizard's son: "Beg the raven to fly quickly back to the
maiden and tell her to be ready on the ninth night, for then will I come
and fetch her away." The wind wizard's son did this, and the raven flew
so swiftly that it reached the hut that same evening. The maiden thanked
the bird heartily and went home, telling no one what she had heard.

As the ninth night drew near she became very unhappy, for she feared
lest some terrible mischance should arise and ruin all. On this night
she crept quietly out of the house and waited trembling at some little
distance from the hut. Presently she heard the muffled tramp of horses,
and soon the armed troop appeared, led by the Prince, who had prudently
marked all the trees beforehand, in order to know the way. When he saw
the maiden he sprang from his horse, lifted her into the saddle, and
then, mounting behind, rode homeward. The moon shone so brightly that
they had no difficulty in seeing the marked trees.

By and by the coming of dawn loosened the tongues of all the birds,
and, had the Prince only known what they were saying, or the maiden
been listening, they might have been spared much sorrow, but they were
thinking only of each other, and when they came out of the forest the
sun was high in the heavens.

Next morning, when the youngest girl did not come to her work, the old
woman asked where she was. The sisters pretended not to know, but the
old woman easily guessed what had happened, and, as she was in reality
a wicked witch, determined to punish the fugitives. Accordingly, she
collected nine different kinds of enchanters' nightshade, added some
salt, which she first bewitched, and, doing all up in a cloth into the
shape of a fluffy ball, sent it after them on the wings of the wind,
saying:

  "Whirlwind!--mother of the wind!
  Lend thy aid 'gainst her who sinned!
  Carry with thee this magic ball.
  Cast her from his arms for ever,
  Bury her in the rippling river."


At midday the Prince and his men came to a deep river, spanned by so
narrow a bridge that only one rider could cross at a time. The horse on
which the Prince and the maiden were riding had just reached the middle
when the magic ball flew by. The horse in its fright suddenly reared,
and before anyone could stop it flung the maiden into the swift current
below. The Prince tried to jump in after her, but his men held him back,
and in spite of his struggles led him home, where for six weeks he shut
himself up in a secret chamber, and would neither eat nor drink, so
great was his grief. At last he became so ill his life was despaired of,
and in great alarm the King caused all the wizards of his country to be
summoned. But none could cure him. At last the wind wizard's son said to
the King: "Send for the old wizard from Finland he knows more than all
the wizards of your kingdom put together." A messenger was at once sent
to Finland, and a week later the old wizard himself arrived on the wings
of the wind. "Honored King," said the wizard, "the wind has blown this
illness upon your son, and a magic ball has snatched away his beloved.
This it is which makes him grieve so constantly. Let the wind blow upon
him that it may blow away his sorrow." Then the King made his son go
out into the wind, and he gradually recovered and told his father all.
"Forget the maiden," said the King, "and take another bride"; but the
Prince said he could never love another.

A year afterward he came suddenly upon the bridge where his beloved met
her death. As he recalled the misfortune he wept bitterly, and would
have given all he possessed to have her once more alive. In the midst
of his grief he thought he heard a voice singing, and looked round, but
could see no one. Then he heard the voice again, and it said:

"Alas! bewitched and all forsaken,  'Tis I must lie for ever here!
My beloved no thought has taken  To free his bride, that was so dear."

He was greatly astonished, sprang from his horse, and looked everywhere
to see if no one were hidden under the bridge; but no one was there.
Then he noticed a yellow water-lily floating on the surface of the
water, half hidden by its broad leaves; but flowers do not sing, and
in great surprise he waited, hoping to hear more. Then again the voice
sang:

     "Alas! bewitched and all forsaken,
       'Tis I must lie for ever here!
     My beloved no thought has taken
       To free his bride, that was so dear."

The Prince suddenly remembered the gold-spinners, and said to himself:
"If I ride thither, who knows but that they could explain this to me?"
He at once rode to the hut, and found the two maidens at the fountain.
He told them what had befallen their sister the year before, and how he
had twice heard a strange song, but yet could see no singer. They said
that the yellow water-lily could be none other than their sister, who
was not dead, but transformed by the magic ball. Before he went to bed,
the eldest made a cake of magic herbs, which she gave him to eat. In the
night he dreamed that he was living in the forest and could understand
all that the birds said to each other. Next morning he told this to the
maidens, and they said that the charmed cake had caused it, and advised
him to listen well to the birds, and see what they could tell him, and
when he had recovered his bride they begged him to return and deliver
them from their wretched bondage.

Having promised this, he joyfully returned home, and as he was riding
through the forest he could perfectly understand all that the birds
said. He heard a thrush say to a magpie: "How stupid men are! they
cannot understand the simplest thing. It is now quite a year since the
maiden was transformed into a water-lily, and, though she sings so sadly
that anyone going over the bridge must hear her, yet no one comes to
her aid. Her former bridegroom rode over it a few days ago and heard her
singing, but was no wiser than the rest."

"And he is to blame for all her misfortunes," added the magpie. "If he
heeds only the words of men she will remain a flower for ever. She
were soon delivered were the matter only laid before the old wizard of
Finland."

After hearing this, the Prince wondered how he could get a message
conveyed to Finland. He heard one swallow say to another: "Come, let us
fly to Finland; we can build better nests there."

"Stop, kind friends!" cried the Prince. "Will you do something for me?"
The birds consented, and he said: "Take a thousand greetings from me
to the wizard of Finland, and ask him how I may restore a maiden
transformed into a flower to her own form."

The swallows flew away, and the Prince rode on to the bridge. There he
waited, hoping to hear the song. But he heard nothing but the rushing of
the water and the moaning of the wind, and, disappointed, rode home.

Shortly after, he was sitting in the garden, thinking that the swallows
must have forgotten his message, when he saw an eagle flying above him.
The bird gradually descended until it perched on a tree close to the
Prince and said: "The wizard of Finland greets thee and bids me say that
thou mayest free the maiden thus: Go to the river and smear thyself all
over with mud; then say: 'From a man into a crab,' and thou wilt become
a crab. Plunge boldly into the water, swim as close as thou canst to the
water-lily's roots, and loosen them from the mud and reeds. This done,
fasten thy claws into the roots and rise with them to the surface. Let
the water flow all over the flower, and drift with the current until
thou comest to a mountain ash tree on the left bank. There is near it
a large stone. Stop there and say: 'From a crab into a man, from a
water-lily into a maiden,' and ye both will be restored to your own
forms."

Full of doubt and fear, the Prince let some time pass before he was bold
enough to attempt to rescue the maiden. Then a crow said to him: "Why
dost thou hesitate? The old wizard has not told thee wrong, neither have
the birds deceived thee; hasten and dry the maiden's tears."

"Nothing worse than death can befall me," thought the Prince, "and death
is better than endless sorrow." So he mounted his horse and went to
the bridge. Again he heard the water-lily's lament, and, hesitating no
longer, smeared himself all over with mud, and, saying: "From a man into
a crab," plunged into the river. For one moment the water hissed in
his ears, and then all was silent. He swam up to the plant and began
to loosen its roots, but so firmly were they fixed in the mud and reeds
that this took him a long time. He then grasped them and rose to the
surface, letting the water flow over the flower. The current carried
them down the stream, but nowhere could he see the mountain ash. At last
he saw it, and close by the large stone. Here he stopped and said: "From
a crab into a man, from a water-lily into a maiden," and to his delight
found himself once more a prince, and the maiden was by his side. She
was ten times more beautiful than before, and wore a magnificent pale
yellow robe, sparkling with jewels. She thanked him for having freed her
from the cruel witch's power, and willingly consented to marry him.

But when they came to the bridge where he had left his horse it was
nowhere to be seen, for, though the Prince thought he had been a crab
only a few hours, he had in reality been under the water for more than
ten days. While they were wondering how they should reach his father's
court, they saw a splendid coach driven by six gaily caparisoned horses
coming along the bank. In this they drove to the palace. The King and
Queen were at church, weeping for their son, whom they had long mourned
for dead. Great was their delight and astonishment when the Prince
entered, leading the beautiful maiden by the hand. The wedding was at
once celebrated and there was feasting and merry-making throughout the
kingdom for six weeks.

Some time afterward the Prince and his bride were sitting in the garden,
when a crow said to them: "Ungrateful creatures! Have you forgotten the
two poor maidens who helped you in your distress? Must they spin gold
flax for ever? Have no pity on the old witch. The three maidens are
princesses, whom she stole away when they were children together, with
all the silver utensils, which she turned into gold flax. Poison were
her fittest punishment."

The Prince was ashamed of having forgotten his promise and set out at
once, and by great good fortune reached the hut when the old woman was
away. The maidens had dreamed that he was coming, and were ready to go
with him, but first they made a cake in which they put poison, and
left it on a table where the old woman was likely to see it when she
returned. She _did_ see it, and thought it looked so tempting that she
greedily ate it up and at once died.

In the secret chamber were found fifty wagon-loads of gold flax, and as
much more was discovered buried. The hut was razed to the ground, and
the Prince and his bride and her two sisters lived happily ever after.




THE TERRIBLE HEAD


Once upon a time there was a king whose only child was a girl. Now the
King had been very anxious to have a son, or at least a grandson, to
come after him, but he was told by a prophet whom he consulted that his
own daughter's son should kill him. This news terrified him so much that
he determined never to let his daughter be married, for he thought it
was better to have no grandson at all than to be killed by his grandson.
He therefore called his workmen together, and bade them dig a deep round
hole in the earth, and then he had a prison of brass built in the hole,
and then, when it was finished, he locked up his daughter. No man ever
saw her, and she never saw even the fields and the sea, but only the sky
and the sun, for there was a wide open window in the roof of the house
of brass. So the Princess would sit looking up at the sky, and watching
the clouds float across, and wondering whether she should ever get out
of her prison. Now one day it seemed to her that the sky opened above
her, and a great shower of shining gold fell through the window in the
roof, and lay glittering in her room. Not very long after, the Princess
had a baby, a little boy, but when the King her father heard of it he
was very angry and afraid, for now the child was born that should be his
death. Yet, cowardly as he was, he had not quite the heart to kill
the Princess and her baby outright, but he had them put in a huge
brass-bound chest and thrust out to sea, that they might either be
drowned or starved, or perhaps come to a country where they would be out
of his way.

So the Princess and the baby floated and drifted in the chest on the sea
all day and night, but the baby was not afraid of the waves nor of the
wind, for he did not know that they could hurt him, and he slept quite
soundly. And the Princess sang a song over him, and this was her song:

  "Child, my child, how sound you sleep!
  Though your mother's care is deep,
  You can lie with heart at rest
  In the narrow brass-bound chest;
  In the starless night and drear
  You can sleep, and never hear
  Billows breaking, and the cry
  Of the night-wind wandering by;
  In soft purple mantle sleeping
  With your little face on mine,
  Hearing not your mother weeping
  And the breaking of the brine."


Well, the daylight came at last, and the great chest was driven by the
waves against the shore of an island. There the brass-bound chest lay,
with the Princess and her baby in it, till a man of that country came
past, and saw it, and dragged it on to the beach, and when he had broken
it open, behold! there was a beautiful lady and a little boy. So he took
them home, and was very kind to them, and brought up the boy till he was
a young man. Now when the boy had come to his full strength the King of
that country fell in love with his mother, and wanted to marry her, but
he knew that she would never part from her boy. So he thought of a plan
to get rid of the boy, and this was his plan: A great Queen of a country
not far off was going to be married, and this king said that all his
subjects must bring him wedding presents to give her. And he made a
feast to which he invited them all, and they all brought their presents;
some brought gold cups, and some brought necklaces of gold and amber,
and some brought beautiful horses; but the boy had nothing, though he
was the son of a princess, for his mother had nothing to give him. Then
the rest of the company began to laugh at him, and the King said: "If
you have nothing else to give, at least you might go and fetch the
Terrible Head."

The boy was proud, and spoke without thinking:

"Then I swear that I _will_ bring the Terrible Head, if it may be
brought by a living man. But of what head you speak I know not."

Then they told him that somewhere, a long way off, there dwelt three
dreadful sisters, monstrous ogrish women, with golden wings and claws
of brass, and with serpents growing on their heads instead of hair. Now
these women were so awful to look on that whoever saw them was turned
at once into stone. And two of them could not be put to death, but the
youngest, whose face was very beautiful, could be killed, and it was
_her_ head that the boy had promised to bring. You may imagine it was no
easy adventure.

When he heard all this he was perhaps sorry that he had sworn to bring
the Terrible Head, but he was determined to keep his oath. So he went
out from the feast, where they all sat drinking and making merry, and
he walked alone beside the sea in the dusk of the evening, at the place
where the great chest, with himself and his mother in it, had been cast
ashore.

There he went and sat down on a rock, looking toward the sea, and
wondering how he should begin to fulfill his vow. Then he felt some one
touch him on the shoulder; and he turned, and saw a young man like a
king's son, having with him a tall and beautiful lady, whose blue eyes
shone like stars. They were taller than mortal men, and the young man
had a staff in his hand with golden wings on it, and two golden serpents
twisted round it, and he had wings on his cap and on his shoes. He spoke
to the boy, and asked him why he was so unhappy; and the boy told him
how he had sworn to bring the Terrible Head, and knew not how to begin
to set about the adventure.

Then the beautiful lady also spoke, and said that "it was a foolish oath
and a hasty, but it might be kept if a brave man had sworn it." Then the
boy answered that he was not afraid, if only he knew the way.

Then the lady said that to kill the dreadful woman with the golden wings
and the brass claws, and to cut off her head, he needed three things:
first, a Cap of Darkness, which would make him invisible when he wore
it; next, a Sword of Sharpness, which would cleave iron at one blow; and
last, the Shoes of Swiftness, with which he might fly in the air.

The boy answered that he knew not where such things were to be procured,
and that, wanting them, he could only try and fail. Then the young man,
taking off his own shoes, said: "First, you shall use these shoes till
you have taken the Terrible Head, and then you must give them back to
me. And with these shoes you will fly as fleet as a bird, or a thought,
over the land or over the waves of the sea, wherever the shoes know the
way. But there are ways which they do not know, roads beyond the borders
of the world. And these roads have you to travel. Now first you must
go to the Three Gray Sisters, who live far off in the north, and are so
very cold that they have only one eye and one tooth among the three. You
must creep up close to them, and as one of them passes the eye to the
other you must seize it, and refuse to give it up till they have told
you the way to the Three Fairies of the Garden, and _they_ will give you
the Cap of Darkness and the Sword of Sharpness, and show you how to wing
beyond this world to the land of the Terrible Head."

Then the beautiful lady said: "Go forth at once, and do not return to
say good-by to your mother, for these things must be done quickly, and
the Shoes of Swiftness themselves will carry you to the land of the
Three Gray Sisters--for they know the measure of that way."

So the boy thanked her, and he fastened on the Shoes of Swiftness, and
turned to say good-by to the young man and the lady. But, behold! they
had vanished, he knew not how or where! Then he leaped in the air to try
the Shoes of Swiftness, and they carried him more swiftly than the wind,
over the warm blue sea, over the happy lands of the south, over the
northern peoples who drank mare's milk and lived in great wagons,
wandering after their flocks. Across the wide rivers, where the wild
fowl rose and fled before him, and over the plains and the cold North
Sea he went, over the fields of snow and the hills of ice, to a place
where the world ends, and all water is frozen, and there are no men, nor
beasts, nor any green grass. There in a blue cave of the ice he found
the Three Gray Sisters, the oldest of living things. Their hair was as
white as the snow, and their flesh of an icy blue, and they mumbled and
nodded in a kind of dream, and their frozen breath hung round them like
a cloud. Now the opening of the cave in the ice was narrow, and it
was not easy to pass in without touching one of the Gray Sisters. But,
floating on the Shoes of Swiftness, the boy just managed to steal in,
and waited till one of the sisters said to another, who had their one
eye:

"Sister, what do you see? do you see old times coming back?"

"No, sister."

"Then give _me_ the eye, for perhaps I can see farther than you."

Then the first sister passed the eye to the second, but as the second
groped for it the boy caught it cleverly out of her hand.

"Where is the eye, sister?" said the second gray woman.

"You have taken it yourself, sister," said the first gray woman.

"Have you lost the eye, sister? have you lost the eye?" said the third
gray woman; "shall we _never_ find it again, and see old times coming
back?"

Then the boy slipped from behind them out of the cold cave into the air,
and he laughed aloud.

When the gray women heard that laugh they began to weep, for now they
knew that a stranger had robbed them, and that they could not help
themselves, and their tears froze as they fell from the hollows where no
eyes were, and rattled on the icy ground of the cave. Then they began to
implore the boy to give them their eye back again, and he could not help
being sorry for them, they were so pitiful. But he said he would never
give them the eye till they told him the way to the Fairies of the
Garden.

Then they wrung their hands miserably, for they guessed why he had come,
and how he was going to try to win the Terrible Head. Now the Dreadful
Women were akin to the Three Gray Sisters, and it was hard for them to
tell the boy the way. But at last they told him to keep always south,
and with the land on his left and the sea on his right, till he reached
the Island of the Fairies of the Garden. Then he gave them back the
eye, and they began to look out once more for the old times coming back
again. But the boy flew south between sea and land, keeping the land
always on his left hand, till he saw a beautiful island crowned with
flowering trees. There he alighted, and there he found the Three Fairies
of the Garden. They were like three very beautiful young women, dressed
one in green, one in white, and one in red, and they were dancing and
singing round an apple tree with apples of gold, and this was their
song:

       THE SONG OF THE WESTERN FAIRIES

     Round and round the apples of gold,
       Round and round dance we;
     Thus do we dance from the days of old
       About the enchanted tree;
     Round, and round, and round we go,
     While the spring is green, or the stream shall flow,
       Or the wind shall stir the sea!

     There is none may taste of the golden fruit
       Till the golden new time come
     Many a tree shall spring from shoot,
     Many a blossom be withered at root,
       Many a song be dumb;
     Broken and still shall be many a lute
       Or ever the new times come!

     Round and round the tree of gold,
       Round and round dance we,
     So doth the great world spin from of old,
     Summer and winter, and fire and cold,
     Song that is sung, and tale that is told,
     Even as we dance, that fold and unfold
       Round the stem of the fairy tree!


These grave dancing fairies were very unlike the Grey Women, and they
were glad to see the boy, and treated him kindly. Then they asked him
why he had come; and he told them how he was sent to find the Sword of
Sharpness and the Cap of Darkness. And the fairies gave him these, and
a wallet, and a shield, and belted the sword, which had a diamond blade,
round his waist, and the cap they set on his head, and told him that now
even they could not see him though they were fairies. Then he took it
off, and they each kissed him and wished him good fortune, and then they
began again their eternal dance round the golden tree, for it is their
business to guard it till the new times come, or till the world's
ending. So the boy put the cap on his head, and hung the wallet round
his waist, and the shining shield on his shoulders, and flew beyond the
great river that lies coiled like a serpent round the whole world. And
by the banks of that river, there he found the three Terrible Women all
asleep beneath a poplar tree, and the dead poplar leaves lay all about
them. Their golden wings were folded and their brass claws were crossed,
and two of them slept with their hideous heads beneath their wings
like birds, and the serpents in their hair writhed out from under the
feathers of gold. But the youngest slept between her two sisters, and
she lay on her back, with her beautiful sad face turned to the sky; and
though she slept her eyes were wide open. If the boy had seen her he
would have been changed into stone by the terror and the pity of it,
she was so awful; but he had thought of a plan for killing her without
looking on her face. As soon as he caught sight of the three from far
off he took his shining shield from his shoulders, and held it up like
a mirror, so that he saw the Dreadful Women reflected in it, and did not
see the Terrible Head itself. Then he came nearer and nearer, till he
reckoned that he was within a sword's stroke of the youngest, and he
guessed where he should strike a back blow behind him. Then he drew the
Sword of Sharpness and struck once, and the Terrible Head was cut from
the shoulders of the creature, and the blood leaped out and struck him
like a blow. But he thrust the Terrible Head into his wallet, and flew
away without looking behind. Then the two Dreadful Sisters who were left
wakened, and rose in the air like great birds; and though they could not
see him because of his Cap of Darkness, they flew after him up the wind,
following by the scent through the clouds, like hounds hunting in a
wood. They came so close that he could hear the clatter of their golden
wings, and their shrieks to each other: "_here, here,_" "_no, there;
this way he went,_" as they chased him. But the Shoes of Swiftness flew
too fast for them, and at last their cries and the rattle of their wings
died away as he crossed the great river that runs round the world.

Now when the horrible creatures were far in the distance, and the boy
found himself on the right side of the river, he flew straight eastward,
trying to seek his own country. But as he looked down from the air he
saw a very strange sight--a beautiful girl chained to a stake at the
high-water mark of the sea. The girl was so frightened or so tired that
she was only prevented from falling by the iron chain about her waist,
and there she hung, as if she were dead. The boy was very sorry for her
and flew down and stood beside her. When he spoke she raised her head
and looked round, but his voice only seemed to frighten her. Then he
remembered that he was wearing the Cap of Darkness, and that she could
only hear him, not see him. So he took it off, and there he stood before
her, the handsomest young man she had ever seen in all her life, with
short curly yellow hair, and blue eyes, and a laughing face. And he
thought her the most beautiful girl in the world. So first with one blow
of the Sword of Sharpness he cut the iron chain that bound her, and then
he asked her what she did there, and why men treated her so cruelly. And
she told him that she was the daughter of the King of that country, and
that she was tied there to be eaten by a monstrous beast out of the sea;
for the beast came and devoured a girl every day. Now the lot had fallen
on her; and as she was just saying this a long fierce head of a cruel
sea creature rose out of the waves and snapped at the girl. But the
beast had been too greedy and too hurried, so he missed his aim the
first time. Before he could rise and bite again the boy had whipped the
Terrible Head out of his wallet and held it up. And when the sea beast
leaped out once more its eyes fell on the head, and instantly it was
turned into a stone. And the stone beast is there on the sea-coast to
this day.

Then the boy and the girl went to the palace of the King, her father,
where everyone was weeping for her death, and they could hardly believe
their eyes when they saw her come back well. And the King and Queen made
much of the boy, and could not contain themselves for delight when they
found he wanted to marry their daughter. So the two were married with
the most splendid rejoicings, and when they had passed some time at
court they went home in a ship to the boy's own country. For he could
not carry his bride through the air, so he took the Shoes of Swiftness,
and the Cap of Darkness, and the Sword of Sharpness up to a lonely place
in the hills. There he left them, and there they were found by the man
and woman who had met him at home beside the sea, and had helped him to
start on his journey.

When this had been done the boy and his bride set forth for home, and
landed at the harbor of his native land. But whom should he meet in the
very street of the town but his own mother, flying for her life from the
wicked King, who now wished to kill her because he found that she would
never marry him! For if she had liked the King ill before, she liked him
far worse now that he had caused her son to disappear so suddenly. She
did not know, of course, where the boy had gone, but thought the King
had slain him secretly. So now she was running for her very life,
and the wicked King was following her with a sword in his hand. Then,
behold! she ran into her son's very arms, but he had only time to kiss
her and step in front of her, when the King struck at him with his
sword. The boy caught the blow on his shield, and cried to the King:

"I swore to bring you the Terrible Head, and see how I keep my oath!"

Then he drew forth the head from his wallet, and when the King's eyes
fell on it, instantly he was turned into stone, just as he stood there
with his sword lifted!

Now all the people rejoiced, because the wicked King should rule them no
longer. And they asked the boy to be their king, but he said no, he must
take his mother home to her father's house. So the people chose for king
the man who had been kind to his mother when first she was cast on the
island in the great chest.

Presently the boy and his mother and his wife set sail for his mother's
own country, from which she had been driven so unkindly. But on the way
they stayed at the court of a king, and it happened that he was
holding games, and giving prizes to the best runners, boxers, and
quoit-throwers. Then the boy would try his strength with the rest, but
he threw the quoit so far that it went beyond what had ever been thrown
before, and fell in the crowd, striking a man so that he died. Now this
man was no other than the father of the boy's mother, who had fled away
from his own kingdom for fear his grandson should find him and kill him
after all. Thus he was destroyed by his own cowardice and by chance, and
thus the prophecy was fulfilled. But the boy and his wife and his mother
went back to the kingdom that was theirs, and lived long and happily
after all their troubles.




THE STORY OF PRETTY GOLDILOCKS


Once upon a time there was a princess who was the prettiest creature in
the world. And because she was so beautiful, and because her hair was
like the finest gold, and waved and rippled nearly to the ground, she
was called Pretty Goldilocks. She always wore a crown of flowers, and
her dresses were embroidered with diamonds and pearls, and everybody who
saw her fell in love with her.

Now one of her neighbors was a young king who was not married. He was
very rich and handsome, and when he heard all that was said about Pretty
Goldilocks, though he had never seen her, he fell so deeply in love
with her that he could neither eat nor drink. So he resolved to send an
ambassador to ask her in marriage. He had a splendid carriage made for
his ambassador, and gave him more than a hundred horses and a hundred
servants, and told him to be sure and bring the Princess back with him.
After he had started nothing else was talked of at Court, and the King
felt so sure that the Princess would consent that he set his people to
work at pretty dresses and splendid furniture, that they might be
ready by the time she came. Meanwhile, the ambassador arrived at the
Princess's palace and delivered his little message, but whether she
happened to be cross that day, or whether the compliment did not please
her, is not known. She only answered that she was very much obliged
to the King, but she had no wish to be married. The ambassador set off
sadly on his homeward way, bringing all the King's presents back with
him, for the Princess was too well brought up to accept the pearls
and diamonds when she would not accept the King, so she had only kept
twenty-five English pins that he might not be vexed.

When the ambassador reached the city, where the King was waiting
impatiently, everybody was very much annoyed with him for not bringing
the Princess, and the King cried like a baby, and nobody could console
him. Now there was at the Court a young man, who was more clever and
handsome than anyone else. He was called Charming, and everyone loved
him, excepting a few envious people who were angry at his being the
King's favorite and knowing all the State secrets. He happened to one
day be with some people who were speaking of the ambassador's return
and saying that his going to the Princess had not done much good, when
Charming said rashly:

"If the King had sent me to the Princess Goldilocks I am sure she would
have come back with me."

His enemies at once went to the King and said:

"You will hardly believe, sire, what Charming has the audacity to
say--that if _he_ had been sent to the Princess Goldilocks she would
certainly have come back with him. He seems to think that he is so much
handsomer than you that the Princess would have fallen in love with him
and followed him willingly." The King was very angry when he heard this.

"Ha, ha!" said he; "does he laugh at my unhappiness, and think himself
more fascinating than I am? Go, and let him be shut up in my great tower
to die of hunger."

So the King's guards went to fetch Charming, who had thought no more of
his rash speech, and carried him off to prison with great cruelty. The
poor prisoner had only a little straw for his bed, and but for a little
stream of water which flowed through the tower he would have died of
thirst.

One day when he was in despair he said to himself:

"How can I have offended the King? I am his most faithful subject, and
have done nothing against him."

The King chanced to be passing the tower and recognized the voice of his
former favorite. He stopped to listen in spite of Charming's enemies,
who tried to persuade him to have nothing more to do with the traitor.
But the King said:

"Be quiet, I wish to hear what he says."

And then he opened the tower door and called to Charming, who came very
sadly and kissed the King's hand, saying:

"What have I done, sire, to deserve this cruel treatment?"

"You mocked me and my ambassador," said the King, "and you said that
if I had sent you for the Princess Goldilocks you would certainly have
brought her back."

"It is quite true, sire," replied Charming; "I should have drawn such a
picture of you, and represented your good qualities in such a way,
that I am certain the Princess would have found you irresistible. But I
cannot see what there is in that to make you angry."

The King could not see any cause for anger either when the matter was
presented to him in this light, and he began to frown very fiercely at
the courtiers who had so misrepresented his favorite.

So he took Charming back to the palace with him, and after seeing that
he had a very good supper he said to him:

"You know that I love Pretty Goldilocks as much as ever, her refusal has
not made any difference to me; but I don't know how to make her change
her mind; I really should like to send you, to see if you can persuade
her to marry me."

Charming replied that he was perfectly willing to go, and would set out
the very next day.

"But you must wait till I can get a grand escort for you," said the
King. But Charming said that he only wanted a good horse to ride, and
the King, who was delighted at his being ready to start so promptly,
gave him letters to the Princess, and bade him good speed. It was on a
Monday morning that he set out all alone upon his errand, thinking of
nothing but how he could persuade the Princess Goldilocks to marry
the King. He had a writing-book in his pocket, and whenever any happy
thought struck him he dismounted from his horse and sat down under
the trees to put it into the harangue which he was preparing for the
Princess, before he forgot it.

One day when he had started at the very earliest dawn, and was riding
over a great meadow, he suddenly had a capital idea, and, springing from
his horse, he sat down under a willow tree which grew by a little river.
When he had written it down he was looking round him, pleased to find
himself in such a pretty place, when all at once he saw a great golden
carp lying gasping and exhausted upon the grass. In leaping after little
flies she had thrown herself high upon the bank, where she had lain till
she was nearly dead. Charming had pity upon her, and, though he couldn't
help thinking that she would have been very nice for dinner, he picked
her up gently and put her back into the water. As soon as Dame Carp
felt the refreshing coolness of the water she sank down joyfully to the
bottom of the river, then, swimming up to the bank quite boldly, she
said:

"I thank you, Charming, for the kindness you have done me. You have
saved my life; one day I will repay you." So saying, she sank down into
the water again, leaving Charming greatly astonished at her politeness.

Another day, as he journeyed on, he saw a raven in great distress. The
poor bird was closely pursued by an eagle, which would soon have eaten
it up, had not Charming quickly fitted an arrow to his bow and shot the
eagle dead. The raven perched upon a tree very joyfully.

"Charming," said he, "it was very generous of you to rescue a poor
raven; I am not ungrateful, some day I will repay you."

Charming thought it was very nice of the raven to say so, and went on
his way.

Before the sun rose he found himself in a thick wood where it was too
dark for him to see his path, and here he heard an owl crying as if it
were in despair.

"Hark!" said he, "that must be an owl in great trouble, I am sure it has
gone into a snare"; and he began to hunt about, and presently found a
great net which some bird-catchers had spread the night before.

"What a pity it is that men do nothing but torment and persecute poor
creatures which never do them any harm!" said he, and he took out his
knife and cut the cords of the net, and the owl flitted away into the
darkness, but then turning, with one flicker of her wings, she came back
to Charming and said:

"It does not need many words to tell you how great a service you have
done me. I was caught; in a few minutes the fowlers would have been
here--without your help I should have been killed. I am grateful, and
one day I will repay you."

These three adventures were the only ones of any consequence that befell
Charming upon his journey, and he made all the haste he could to reach
the palace of the Princess Goldilocks.

When he arrived he thought everything he saw delightful and magnificent.
Diamonds were as plentiful as pebbles, and the gold and silver, the
beautiful dresses, the sweetmeats and pretty things that were everywhere
quite amazed him; he thought to himself: "If the Princess consents to
leave all this, and come with me to marry the King, he may think himself
lucky!"

Then he dressed himself carefully in rich brocade, with scarlet and
white plumes, and threw a splendid embroidered scarf over his shoulder,
and, looking as gay and as graceful as possible, he presented himself at
the door of the palace, carrying in his arm a tiny pretty dog which
he had bought on the way. The guards saluted him respectfully, and a
messenger was sent to the Princess to announce the arrival of Charming
as ambassador of her neighbor the King.

"Charming," said the Princess, "the name promises well; I have no doubt
that he is good looking and fascinates everybody."

"Indeed he does, madam," said all her maids of honor in one breath. "We
saw him from the window of the garret where we were spinning flax, and
we could do nothing but look at him as long as he was in sight."

"Well to be sure," said the Princess, "that's how you amuse yourselves,
is it? Looking at strangers out of the window! Be quick and give me my
blue satin embroidered dress, and comb out my golden hair. Let somebody
make me fresh garlands of flowers, and give me my high-heeled shoes and
my fan, and tell them to sweep my great hall and my throne, for I want
everyone to say I am really 'Pretty Goldilocks.'"

You can imagine how all her maids scurried this way and that to make the
Princess ready, and how in their haste they knocked their heads together
and hindered each other, till she thought they would never have done.
However, at last they led her into the gallery of mirrors that she might
assure herself that nothing was lacking in her appearance, and then
she mounted her throne of gold, ebony, and ivory, while her ladies took
their guitars and began to sing softly. Then Charming was led in, and
was so struck with astonishment and admiration that at first not a word
could he say. But presently he took courage and delivered his harangue,
bravely ending by begging the Princess to spare him the disappointment
of going back without her.

"Sir Charming," answered she, "all the reasons you have given me are
very good ones, and I assure you that I should have more pleasure in
obliging you than anyone else, but you must know that a month ago as I
was walking by the river with my ladies I took off my glove, and as I
did so a ring that I was wearing slipped off my finger and rolled into
the water. As I valued it more than my kingdom, you may imagine how
vexed I was at losing it, and I vowed to never listen to any proposal of
marriage unless the ambassador first brought me back my ring. So now
you know what is expected of you, for if you talked for fifteen days and
fifteen nights you could not make me change my mind."

Charming was very much surprised by this answer, but he bowed low to the
Princess, and begged her to accept the embroidered scarf and the tiny
dog he had brought with him. But she answered that she did not want any
presents, and that he was to remember what she had just told him. When
he got back to his lodging he went to bed without eating any supper, and
his little dog, who was called Frisk, couldn't eat any either, but came
and lay down close to him. All night Charming sighed and lamented.

"How am I to find a ring that fell into the river a month ago?" said
he. "It is useless to try; the Princess must have told me to do it on
purpose, knowing it was impossible." And then he sighed again.

Frisk heard him and said:

"My dear master, don't despair; the luck may change, you are too good
not to be happy. Let us go down to the river as soon as it is light."

But Charming only gave him two little pats and said nothing, and very
soon he fell asleep.

At the first glimmer of dawn Frisk began to jump about, and when he had
waked Charming they went out together, first into the garden, and then
down to the river's brink, where they wandered up and down. Charming was
thinking sadly of having to go back unsuccessful when he heard someone
calling: "Charming, Charming!" He looked all about him and thought he
must be dreaming, as he could not see anybody. Then he walked on and the
voice called again: "Charming, Charming!"

"Who calls me?" said he. Frisk, who was very small and could look
closely into the water, cried out: "I see a golden carp coming." And
sure enough there was the great carp, who said to Charming:

"You saved my life in the meadow by the willow tree, and I promised that
I would repay you. Take this, it is Princess Goldilock's ring." Charming
took the ring out of Dame Carp's mouth, thanking her a thousand times,
and he and tiny Frisk went straight to the palace, where someone told
the Princess that he was asking to see her.

"Ah! poor fellow," said she, "he must have come to say good-by, finding
it impossible to do as I asked."

So in came Charming, who presented her with the ring and said:

"Madam, I have done your bidding. Will it please you to marry my
master?" When the Princess saw her ring brought back to her unhurt she
was so astonished that she thought she must be dreaming.

"Truly, Charming," said she, "you must be the favorite of some fairy, or
you could never have found it."

"Madam," answered he, "I was helped by nothing but my desire to obey
your wishes."

"Since you are so kind," said she, "perhaps you will do me another
service, for till it is done I will never be married. There is a prince
not far from here whose name is Galifron, who once wanted to marry me,
but when I refused he uttered the most terrible threats against me, and
vowed that he would lay waste my country. But what could I do? I could
not marry a frightful giant as tall as a tower, who eats up people as
a monkey eats chestnuts, and who talks so loud that anybody who has to
listen to him becomes quite deaf. Nevertheless, he does not cease to
persecute me and to kill my subjects. So before I can listen to your
proposal you must kill him and bring me his head."

Charming was rather dismayed at this command, but he answered:

"Very well, Princess, I will fight this Galifron; I believe that he will
kill me, but at any rate I shall die in your defense."

Then the Princess was frightened and said everything she could think of
to prevent Charming from fighting the giant, but it was of no use, and
he went out to arm himself suitably, and then, taking little Frisk with
him, he mounted his horse and set out for Galifron's country. Everyone
he met told him what a terrible giant Galifron was, and that nobody
dared go near him; and the more he heard, the more frightened he grew.
Frisk tried to encourage him by saying: "While you are fighting the
giant, dear master, I will go and bite his heels, and when he stoops
down to look at me you can kill him."

Charming praised his little dog's plan, but knew that this help would
not do much good.

At last he drew near the giant's castle, and saw to his horror that
every path that led to it was strewn with bones. Before long he saw
Galifron coming. His head was higher than the tallest trees, and he sang
in a terrible voice:

  "Bring out your little boys and girls,
  Pray do not stay to do their curls,
  For I shall eat so very many,
  I shall not know if they have any."


Thereupon Charming sang out as loud as he could to the same tune:

  "Come out and meet the valiant Charming
  Who finds you not at all alarming;
  Although he is not very tall,
  He's big enough to make you fall."


The rhymes were not very correct, but you see he had made them up so
quickly that it is a miracle that they were not worse; especially as he
was horribly frightened all the time. When Galifron heard these words he
looked all about him, and saw Charming standing, sword in hand this put
the giant into a terrible rage, and he aimed a blow at Charming with his
huge iron club, which would certainly have killed him if it had reached
him, but at that instant a raven perched upon the giant's head, and,
pecking with its strong beak and beating with its great wings so
confused and blinded him that all his blows fell harmlessly upon the
air, and Charming, rushing in, gave him several strokes with his sharp
sword so that he fell to the ground. Whereupon Charming cut off his head
before he knew anything about it, and the raven from a tree close by
croaked out:

"You see I have not forgotten the good turn you did me in killing the
eagle. To-day I think I have fulfilled my promise of repaying you."

"Indeed, I owe you more gratitude than you ever owed me," replied
Charming.

And then he mounted his horse and rode off with Galifron's head.

When he reached the city the people ran after him in crowds, crying:

"Behold the brave Charming, who has killed the giant!" And their shouts
reached the Princess's ear, but she dared not ask what was happening,
for fear she should hear that Charming had been killed. But very soon
he arrived at the palace with the giant's head, of which she was still
terrified, though it could no longer do her any harm.

"Princess," said Charming, "I have killed your enemy; I hope you will
now consent to marry the King my master."

"Oh dear! no," said the Princess, "not until you have brought me some
water from the Gloomy Cavern.

"Not far from here there is a deep cave, the entrance to which is
guarded by two dragons with fiery eyes, who will not allow anyone to
pass them. When you get into the cavern you will find an immense hole,
which you must go down, and it is full of toads and snakes; at the
bottom of this hole there is another little cave, in which rises the
Fountain of Health and Beauty. It is some of this water that I really
must have: everything it touches becomes wonderful. The beautiful things
will always remain beautiful, and the ugly things become lovely. If one
is young one never grows old, and if one is old one becomes young. You
see, Charming, I could not leave my kingdom without taking some of it
with me."

"Princess," said he, "you at least can never need this water, but I am
an unhappy ambassador, whose death you desire. Where you send me I will
go, though I know I shall never return."

And, as the Princess Goldilocks showed no sign of relenting, he started
with his little dog for the Gloomy Cavern. Everyone he met on the way
said:

"What a pity that a handsome young man should throw away his life so
carelessly! He is going to the cavern alone, though if he had a
hundred men with him he could not succeed. Why does the Princess ask
impossibilities?" Charming said nothing, but he was very sad. When he
was near the top of a hill he dismounted to let his horse graze, while
Frisk amused himself by chasing flies. Charming knew he could not be far
from the Gloomy Cavern, and on looking about him he saw a black hideous
rock from which came a thick smoke, followed in a moment by one of the
dragons with fire blazing from his mouth and eyes. His body was yellow
and green, and his claws scarlet, and his tail was so long that it lay
in a hundred coils. Frisk was so terrified at the sight of it that he
did not know where to hide. Charming, quite determined to get the water
or die, now drew his sword, and, taking the crystal flask which Pretty
Goldilocks had given him to fill, said to Frisk:

"I feel sure that I shall never come back from this expedition; when I
am dead, go to the Princess and tell her that her errand has cost me
my life. Then find the King my master, and relate all my adventures to
him."

As he spoke he heard a voice calling: "Charming, Charming!"

"Who calls me?" said he; then he saw an owl sitting in a hollow tree,
who said to him:

"You saved my life when I was caught in the net, now I can repay you.
Trust me with the flask, for I know all the ways of the Gloomy Cavern,
and can fill it from the Fountain of Beauty." Charming was only too glad
to give her the flask, and she flitted into the cavern quite unnoticed
by the dragon, and after some time returned with the flask, filled to
the very brim with sparkling water. Charming thanked her with all his
heart, and joyfully hastened back to the town.

He went straight to the palace and gave the flask to the Princess, who
had no further objection to make. So she thanked Charming, and ordered
that preparations should be made for her departure, and they soon set
out together. The Princess found Charming such an agreeable companion
that she sometimes said to him: "Why didn't we stay where we were? I
could have made you king, and we should have been so happy!"

But Charming only answered:

"I could not have done anything that would have vexed my master so
much, even for a kingdom, or to please you, though I think you are as
beautiful as the sun."

At last they reached the King's great city, and he came out to meet the
Princess, bringing magnificent presents, and the marriage was celebrated
with great rejoicings. But Goldilocks was so fond of Charming that she
could not be happy unless he was near her, and she was always singing
his praises.

"If it hadn't been for Charming," she said to the King, "I should never
have come here; you ought to be very much obliged to him, for he did the
most impossible things and got me water from the Fountain of Beauty, so
I can never grow old, and shall get prettier every year."

Then Charming's enemies said to the King:

"It is a wonder that you are not jealous, the Queen thinks there is
nobody in the world like Charming. As if anybody you had sent could not
have done just as much!"

"It is quite true, now I come to think of it," said the King. "Let him
be chained hand and foot, and thrown into the tower."

So they took Charming, and as a reward for having served the King so
faithfully he was shut up in the tower, where he only saw the jailer,
who brought him a piece of black bread and a pitcher of water every day.

However, little Frisk came to console him, and told him all the news.

When Pretty Goldilocks heard what had happened she threw herself at the
King's feet and begged him to set Charming free, but the more she cried,
the more angry he was, and at last she saw that it was useless to say
any more; but it made her very sad. Then the King took it into his
head that perhaps he was not handsome enough to please the Princess
Goldilocks, and he thought he would bathe his face with the water
from the Fountain of Beauty, which was in the flask on a shelf in the
Princess's room, where she had placed it that she might see it often.
Now it happened that one of the Princess's ladies in chasing a spider
had knocked the flask off the shelf and broken it, and every drop of the
water had been spilt. Not knowing what to do, she had hastily swept away
the pieces of crystal, and then remembered that in the King's room she
had seen a flask of exactly the same shape, also filled with sparkling
water. So, without saying a word, she fetched it and stood it upon the
Queen's shelf.

Now the water in this flask was what was used in the kingdom for getting
rid of troublesome people. Instead of having their heads cut off in the
usual way, their faces were bathed with the water, and they instantly
fell asleep and never woke up any more. So, when the King, thinking
to improve his beauty, took the flask and sprinkled the water upon his
face, _he_ fell asleep, and nobody could wake him.

Little Frisk was the first to hear the news, and he ran to tell
Charming, who sent him to beg the Princess not to forget the poor
prisoner. All the palace was in confusion on account of the King's
death, but tiny Frisk made his way through the crowd to the Princess's
side, and said:

"Madam, do not forget poor Charming."

Then she remembered all he had done for her, and without saying a word
to anyone went straight to the tower, and with her own hands took off
Charming's chains. Then, putting a golden crown upon his head, and the
royal mantle upon his shoulders, she said:

"Come, faithful Charming, I make you king, and will take you for my
husband."

Charming, once more free and happy, fell at her feet and thanked her for
her gracious words.

Everybody was delighted that he should be king, and the wedding, which
took place at once, was the prettiest that can be imagined, and Prince
Charming and Princess Goldilocks lived happily ever after.(1)


(1) Madame d'Aulnoy.




THE HISTORY OF WHITTINGTON


Dick Whittington was a very little boy when his father and mother died;
so little, indeed, that he never knew them, nor the place where he was
born. He strolled about the country as ragged as a colt, till he met
with a wagoner who was going to London, and who gave him leave to walk
all the way by the side of his wagon without paying anything for his
passage. This pleased little Whittington very much, as he wanted to see
London sadly, for he had heard that the streets were paved with
gold, and he was willing to get a bushel of it; but how great was his
disappointment, poor boy! when he saw the streets covered with dirt
instead of gold, and found himself in a strange place, without a friend,
without food, and without money.

Though the wagoner was so charitable as to let him walk up by the side
of the wagon for nothing, he took care not to know him when he came to
town, and the poor boy was, in a little time, so cold and hungry that he
wished himself in a good kitchen and by a warm fire in the country.

In his distress he asked charity of several people, and one of them bid
him "Go to work for an idle rogue." "That I will," said Whittington,
"with all my heart; I will work for you if you will let me."

The man, who thought this savored of wit and impertinence (though the
poor lad intended only to show his readiness to work), gave him a blow
with a stick which broke his head so that the blood ran down. In this
situation, and fainting for want of food, he laid himself down at the
door of one Mr. Fitzwarren, a merchant, where the cook saw him, and,
being an ill-natured hussy, ordered him to go about his business or she
would scald him. At this time Mr. Fitzwarren came from the Exchange, and
began also to scold at the poor boy, bidding him to go to work.

Whittington answered that he should be glad to work if anybody would
employ him, and that he should be able if he could get some victuals to
eat, for he had had nothing for three days, and he was a poor country
boy, and knew nobody, and nobody would employ him.

He then endeavored to get up, but he was so very weak that he fell down
again, which excited so much compassion in the merchant that he ordered
the servants to take him in and give him some meat and drink, and let
him help the cook to do any dirty work that she had to set him about.
People are too apt to reproach those who beg with being idle, but give
themselves no concern to put them in the way of getting business to do,
or considering whether they are able to do it, which is not charity.

But we return to Whittington, who could have lived happy in this worthy
family had he not been bumped about by the cross cook, who must be
always roasting and basting, or when the spit was idle employed her
hands upon poor Whittington! At last Miss Alice, his master's daughter,
was informed of it, and then she took compassion on the poor boy, and
made the servants treat him kindly.

Besides the crossness of the cook, Whittington had another difficulty
to get over before he could be happy. He had, by order of his master, a
flock-bed placed for him in a garret, where there was a number of rats
and mice that often ran over the poor boy's nose and disturbed him
in his sleep. After some time, however, a gentleman who came to his
master's house gave Whittington a penny for brushing his shoes. This
he put into his pocket, being determined to lay it out to the best
advantage; and the next day, seeing a woman in the street with a cat
under her arm, he ran up to know the price of it. The woman (as the cat
was a good mouser) asked a deal of money for it, but on Whittington's
telling her he had but a penny in the world, and that he wanted a cat
sadly, she let him have it.

This cat Whittington concealed in the garret, for fear she should be
beat about by his mortal enemy the cook, and here she soon killed or
frightened away the rats and mice, so that the poor boy could now sleep
as sound as a top.

Soon after this the merchant, who had a ship ready to sail, called
for his servants, as his custom was, in order that each of them might
venture something to try their luck; and whatever they sent was to pay
neither freight nor custom, for he thought justly that God Almighty
would bless him the more for his readiness to let the poor partake of
his fortune.

All the servants appeared but poor Whittington, who, having neither
money nor goods, could not think of sending anything to try his luck;
but his good friend Miss Alice, thinking his poverty kept him away,
ordered him to be called.

She then offered to lay down something for him, but the merchant told
his daughter that would not do, it must be something of his own. Upon
which poor Whittington said he had nothing but a cat which he bought
for a penny that was given him. "Fetch thy cat, boy," said the merchant,
"and send her." Whittington brought poor puss and delivered her to the
captain, with tears in his eyes, for he said he should now be disturbed
by the rats and mice as much as ever. All the company laughed at
the adventure but Miss Alice, who pitied the poor boy, and gave him
something to buy another cat.

While puss was beating the billows at sea, poor Whittington was severely
beaten at home by his tyrannical mistress the cook, who used him so
cruelly, and made such game of him for sending his cat to sea, that
at last the poor boy determined to run away from his place, and having
packed up the few things he had, he set out very early in the morning on
All-Hallows day. He traveled as far as Holloway, and there sat down on
a stone to consider what course he should take; but while he was thus
ruminating, Bow bells, of which there were only six, began to ring; and
he thought their sounds addressed him in this manner:

  "Turn again, Whittington,
  Thrice Lord Mayor of London."


"Lord Mayor of London!" said he to himself, "what would not one endure
to be Lord Mayor of London, and ride in such a fine coach? Well, I'll go
back again, and bear all the pummelling and ill-usage of Cicely rather
than miss the opportunity of being Lord Mayor!" So home he went, and
happily got into the house and about his business before Mrs. Cicely
made her appearance.

We must now follow Miss Puss to the coast of Africa. How perilous are
voyages at sea, how uncertain the winds and the waves, and how many
accidents attend a naval life!

The ship that had the cat on board was long beaten at sea, and at last,
by contrary winds, driven on a part of the coast of Barbary which was
inhabited by Moors unknown to the English. These people received our
countrymen with civility, and therefore the captain, in order to trade
with them, showed them the patterns of the goods he had on board, and
sent some of them to the King of the country, who was so well pleased
that he sent for the captain and the factor to come to his palace, which
was about a mile from the sea. Here they were placed, according to the
custom of the country, on rich carpets, flowered with gold and silver;
and the King and Queen being seated at the upper end of the room, dinner
was brought in, which consisted of many dishes; but no sooner were the
dishes put down but an amazing number of rats and mice came from all
quarters and devoured all the meat in an instant.

The factor, in surprise, turned round to the nobles and asked if these
vermin were not offensive. "Oh! yes," said they, "very offensive; and
the King would give half his treasure to be freed of them, for they
not only destroy his dinner, as you see, but they assault him in his
chamber, and even in bed, so that he is obliged to be watched while he
is sleeping, for fear of them."

The factor jumped for joy; he remembered poor Whittington and his
cat, and told the King he had a creature on board the ship that would
despatch all these vermin immediately. The King's heart heaved so high
at the joy which this news gave him that his turban dropped off his
head. "Bring this creature to me," said he; "vermin are dreadful in a
court, and if she will perform what you say I will load your ship with
gold and jewels in exchange for her." The factor, who knew his business,
took this opportunity to set forth the merits of Miss Puss. He told his
Majesty that it would be inconvenient to part with her, as, when she
was gone, the rats and mice might destroy the goods in the ship--but to
oblige his Majesty he would fetch her. "Run, run," said the Queen; "I am
impatient to see the dear creature."

Away flew the factor, while another dinner was providing, and returned
with the cat just as the rats and mice were devouring that also. He
immediately put down Miss Puss, who killed a great number of them.

The King rejoiced greatly to see his old enemies destroyed by so small a
creature, and the Queen was highly pleased, and desired the cat might
be brought near that she might look at her. Upon which the factor called
"Pussy, pussy, pussy!" and she came to him. He then presented her to the
Queen, who started back, and was afraid to touch a creature who had made
such havoc among the rats and mice; however, when the factor stroked
the cat and called "Pussy, pussy!" the Queen also touched her and cried
"Putty, putty!" for she had not learned English.

He then put her down on the Queen's lap, where she, purring, played with
her Majesty's hand, and then sang herself to sleep.

The King, having seen the exploits of Miss Puss, and being informed that
her kittens would stock the whole country, bargained with the captain
and factor for the whole ship's cargo, and then gave them ten times as
much for the cat as all the rest amounted to. On which, taking leave of
their Majesties and other great personages at court, they sailed with a
fair wind for England, whither we must now attend them.

The morn had scarcely dawned when Mr. Fitzwarren arose to count over
the cash and settle the business for that day. He had just entered the
counting-house, and seated himself at the desk, when somebody came,
tap, tap, at the door. "Who's there?" said Mr. Fitzwarren. "A friend,"
answered the other. "What friend can come at this unseasonable time?" "A
real friend is never unseasonable," answered the other. "I come to bring
you good news of your ship Unicorn." The merchant bustled up in such a
hurry that he forgot his gout; instantly opened the door, and who should
be seen waiting but the captain and factor, with a cabinet of jewels,
and a bill of lading, for which the merchant lifted up his eyes and
thanked heaven for sending him such a prosperous voyage. Then they told
him the adventures of the cat, and showed him the cabinet of jewels
which they had brought for Mr. Whittington. Upon which he cried out with
great earnestness, but not in the most poetical manner:

  "Go, send him in, and tell him of his fame,
  And call him Mr. Whittington by name."


It is not our business to animadvert upon these lines; we are not
critics, but historians. It is sufficient for us that they are the words
of Mr. Fitzwarren; and though it is beside our purpose, and perhaps not
in our power to prove him a good poet, we shall soon convince the reader
that he was a good man, which was a much better character; for when some
who were present told him that this treasure was too much for such a
poor boy as Whittington, he said: "God forbid that I should deprive him
of a penny; it is his own, and he shall have it to a farthing." He then
ordered Mr. Whittington in, who was at this time cleaning the kitchen
and would have excused himself from going into the counting-house,
saying the room was swept and his shoes were dirty and full of
hob-nails. The merchant, however, made him come in, and ordered a chair
to be set for him. Upon which, thinking they intended to make sport
of him, as had been too often the case in the kitchen, he besought his
master not to mock a poor simple fellow, who intended them no harm, but
let him go about his business. The merchant, taking him by the hand,
said: "Indeed, Mr. Whittington, I am in earnest with you, and sent for
you to congratulate you on your great success. Your cat has procured you
more money than I am worth in the world, and may you long enjoy it and
be happy!"

At length, being shown the treasure, and convinced by them that all of
it belonged to him, he fell upon his knees and thanked the Almighty for
his providential care of such a poor and miserable creature. He then
laid all the treasure at his master's feet, who refused to take any part
of it, but told him he heartily rejoiced at his prosperity, and hoped
the wealth he had acquired would be a comfort to him, and would make
him happy. He then applied to his mistress, and to his good friend
Miss Alice, who refused to take any part of the money, but told him she
heartily rejoiced at his good success, and wished him all imaginable
felicity. He then gratified the captain, factor, and the ship's crew for
the care they had taken of his cargo. He likewise distributed presents
to all the servants in the house, not forgetting even his old enemy the
cook, though she little deserved it.

After this Mr. Fitzwarren advised Mr. Whittington to send for the
necessary people and dress himself like a gentleman, and made him the
offer of his house to live in till he could provide himself with a
better.

Now it came to pass when Mr. Whittington's face was washed, his hair
curled, and he dressed in a rich suit of clothes, that he turned out
a genteel young fellow; and, as wealth contributes much to give a man
confidence, he in a little time dropped that sheepish behavior which
was principally occasioned by a depression of spirits, and soon grew a
sprightly and good companion, insomuch that Miss Alice, who had formerly
pitied him, now fell in love with him.

When her father perceived they had this good liking for each other
he proposed a match between them, to which both parties cheerfully
consented, and the Lord Mayor, Court of Aldermen, Sheriffs, the Company
of Stationers, the Royal Academy of Arts, and a number of eminent
merchants attended the ceremony, and were elegantly treated at an
entertainment made for that purpose.

History further relates that they lived very happy, had several
children, and died at a good old age. Mr. Whittington served as Sheriff
of London and was three times Lord Mayor. In the last year of his
mayoralty he entertained King Henry V and his Queen, after his
conquest of France, upon which occasion the King, in consideration of
Whittington's merit, said: "Never had prince such a subject"; which
being told to Whittington at the table, he replied: "Never had subject
such a king." His Majesty, out of respect to his good character,
conferred the honor of knighthood on him soon after.

Sir Richard many years before his death constantly fed a great number
of poor citizens, built a church and a college to it, with a yearly
allowance for poor scholars, and near it erected a hospital.

He also built Newgate for criminals, and gave liberally to St.
Bartholomew's Hospital and other public charities.




THE WONDERFUL SHEEP


Once upon a time--in the days when the fairies lived--there was a king
who had three daughters, who were all young, and clever, and beautiful;
but the youngest of the three, who was called Miranda, was the prettiest
and the most beloved.

The King, her father, gave her more dresses and jewels in a month than
he gave the others in a year; but she was so generous that she shared
everything with her sisters, and they were all as happy and as fond of
one another as they could be.

Now, the King had some quarrelsome neighbors, who, tired of leaving him
in peace, began to make war upon him so fiercely that he feared he would
be altogether beaten if he did not make an effort to defend himself.
So he collected a great army and set off to fight them, leaving the
Princesses with their governess in a castle where news of the war was
brought every day--sometimes that the King had taken a town, or won a
battle, and, at last, that he had altogether overcome his enemies and
chased them out of his kingdom, and was coming back to the castle as
quickly as possible, to see his dear little Miranda whom he loved so
much.

The three Princesses put on dresses of satin, which they had had made
on purpose for this great occasion, one green, one blue, and the third
white; their jewels were the same colors. The eldest wore emeralds, the
second turquoises, and the youngest diamonds, and thus adorned they
went to meet the King, singing verses which they had composed about his
victories.

When he saw them all so beautiful and so gay he embraced them tenderly,
but gave Miranda more kisses than either of the others.

Presently a splendid banquet was served, and the King and his daughters
sat down to it, and as he always thought that there was some special
meaning in everything, he said to the eldest:

"Tell me why you have chosen a green dress."

"Sire," she answered, "having heard of your victories I thought that
green would signify my joy and the hope of your speedy return."

"That is a very good answer," said the King; "and you, my daughter," he
continued, "why did you take a blue dress?"

"Sire," said the Princess, "to show that we constantly hoped for your
success, and that the sight of you is as welcome to me as the sky with
its most beautiful stars."

"Why," said the King, "your wise answers astonish me, and you, Miranda.
What made you dress yourself all in white?

"Because, sire," she answered, "white suits me better than anything
else."

"What!" said the King angrily, "was that all you thought of, vain
child?"

"I thought you would be pleased with me," said the Princess; "that was
all."

The King, who loved her, was satisfied with this, and even pretended to
be pleased that she had not told him all her reasons at first.

"And now," said he, "as I have supped well, and it is not time yet to go
to bed, tell me what you dreamed last night."

The eldest said she had dreamed that he brought her a dress, and the
precious stones and gold embroidery on it were brighter than the sun.

The dream of the second was that the King had brought her a spinning
wheel and a distaff, that she might spin him some shirts.

But the youngest said: "I dreamed that my second sister was to be
married, and on her wedding-day, you, father, held a golden ewer and
said: 'Come, Miranda, and I will hold the water that you may dip your
hands in it.'"

The King was very angry indeed when he heard this dream, and frowned
horribly; indeed, he made such an ugly face that everyone knew how angry
he was, and he got up and went off to bed in a great hurry; but he could
not forget his daughter's dream.

"Does the proud girl wish to make me her slave?" he said to himself. "I
am not surprised at her choosing to dress herself in white satin without
a thought of me. She does not think me worthy of her consideration! But
I will soon put an end to her pretensions!"

He rose in a fury, and although it was not yet daylight, he sent for the
Captain of his Bodyguard, and said to him:

"You have heard the Princess Miranda's dream? I consider that it means
strange things against me, therefore I order you to take her away into
the forest and kill her, and, that I may be sure it is done, you must
bring me her heart and her tongue. If you attempt to deceive me you
shall be put to death!"

The Captain of the Guard was very much astonished when he heard this
barbarous order, but he did not dare to contradict the King for fear of
making him still more angry, or causing him to send someone else, so he
answered that he would fetch the Princess and do as the King had said.
When he went to her room they would hardly let him in, it was so early,
but he said that the King had sent for Miranda, and she got up quickly
and came out; a little black girl called Patypata held up her train, and
her pet monkey and her little dog ran after her. The monkey was called
Grabugeon, and the little dog Tintin.

The Captain of the Guard begged Miranda to come down into the garden
where the King was enjoying the fresh air, and when they got there, he
pretended to search for him, but as he was not to be found, he said:

"No doubt his Majesty has strolled into the forest," and he opened the
little door that led to it and they went through.

By this time the daylight had begun to appear, and the Princess, looking
at her conductor, saw that he had tears in his eyes and seemed too sad
to speak.

"What is the matter?" she said in the kindest way. "You seem very
sorrowful."

"Alas! Princess," he answered, "who would not be sorrowful who was
ordered to do such a terrible thing as I am? The King has commanded me
to kill you here, and carry your heart and your tongue to him, and if I
disobey I shall lose my life."

The poor Princess was terrified, she grew very pale and began to cry
softly.

Looking up at the Captain of the Guard with her beautiful eyes, she said
gently:

"Will you really have the heart to kill me? I have never done you any
harm, and have always spoken well of you to the King. If I had deserved
my father's anger I would suffer without a murmur, but, alas! he is
unjust to complain of me, when I have always treated him with love and
respect."

"Fear nothing, Princess," said the Captain of the Guard. "I would far
rather die myself than hurt you; but even if I am killed you will not
be safe: we must find some way of making the King believe that you are
dead."

"What can we do?" said Miranda; "unless you take him my heart and my
tongue he will never believe you."

The Princess and the Captain of the Guard were talking so earnestly that
they did not think of Patypata, but she had overheard all they said, and
now came and threw herself at Miranda's feet.

"Madam," she said, "I offer you my life; let me be killed, I shall be
only too happy to die for such a kind mistress."

"Why, Patypata," cried the Princess, kissing her, "that would never do;
your life is as precious to me as my own, especially after such a proof
of your affection as you have just given me."

"You are right, Princess," said Grabugeon, coming forward, "to love such
a faithful slave as Patypata; she is of more use to you than I am, I
offer you my tongue and my heart most willingly, especially as I wish to
make a great name for myself in Goblin Land."

"No, no, my little Grabugeon," replied Miranda, "I cannot bear the
thought of taking your life."

"Such a good little dog as I am," cried Tintin, "could not think of
letting either of you die for his mistress. If anyone is to die for her
it must be me."

And then began a great dispute between Patypata, Grabugeon, and Tintin,
and they came to high words, until at last Grabugeon, who was quicker
than the others, ran up to the very top of the nearest tree, and let
herself fall, head first, to the ground, and there she lay--quite dead!

The Princess was very sorry, but as Grabugeon was really dead, she
allowed the Captain of the Guard to take her tongue; but, alas! it
was such a little one--not bigger than the Princess's thumb--that they
decided sorrowfully that it was of no use at all: the King would not
have been taken in by it for a moment!

"Alas! my little monkey," cried the Princess, "I have lost you, and yet
I am no better off than I was before."

"The honor of saving your life is to be mine," interrupted Patypata,
and, before they could prevent her, she had picked up a knife and cut
her head off in an instant.

But when the Captain of the Guard would have taken her tongue it turned
out to be quite black, so that would not have deceived the King either.

"Am I not unlucky?" cried the poor Princess; "I lose everything I love,
and am none the better for it."

"If you had accepted my offer," said Tintin, "you would only have had me
to regret, and I should have had all your gratitude."

Miranda kissed her little dog, crying so bitterly, that at last she
could bear it no longer, and turned away into the forest. When she
looked back the Captain of the Guard was gone, and she was alone, except
for Patypata, Grabugeon, and Tintin, who lay upon the ground. She could
not leave the place until she had buried them in a pretty little mossy
grave at the foot of a tree, and she wrote their names upon the bark of
the tree, and how they had all died to save her life. And then she began
to think where she could go for safety--for this forest was so close to
her father's castle that she might be seen and recognized by the first
passer-by, and, besides that, it was full of lions and wolves, who would
have snapped up a princess just as soon as a stray chicken. So she began
to walk as fast as she could, but the forest was so large and the sun
was so hot that she nearly died of heat and terror and fatigue; look
which way she would there seemed to be no end to the forest, and she
was so frightened that she fancied every minute that she heard the King
running after her to kill her. You may imagine how miserable she was,
and how she cried as she went on, not knowing which path to follow, and
with the thorny bushes scratching her dreadfully and tearing her pretty
frock to pieces.

At last she heard the bleating of a sheep, and said to herself:

"No doubt there are shepherds here with their flocks; they will show me
the way to some village where I can live disguised as a peasant girl.
Alas! it is not always kings and princes who are the happiest people in
the world. Who could have believed that I should ever be obliged to run
away and hide because the King, for no reason at all, wishes to kill
me?"

So saying she advanced toward the place where she heard the bleating,
but what was her surprise when, in a lovely little glade quite
surrounded by trees, she saw a large sheep; its wool was as white as
snow, and its horns shone like gold; it had a garland of flowers round
its neck, and strings of great pearls about its legs, and a collar of
diamonds; it lay upon a bank of orange-flowers, under a canopy of cloth
of gold which protected it from the heat of the sun. Nearly a hundred
other sheep were scattered about, not eating the grass, but some
drinking coffee, lemonade, or sherbet, others eating ices, strawberries
and cream, or sweetmeats, while others, again, were playing games. Many
of them wore golden collars with jewels, flowers, and ribbons.

Miranda stopped short in amazement at this unexpected sight, and was
looking in all directions for the shepherd of this surprising flock,
when the beautiful sheep came bounding toward her.

"Approach, lovely Princess," he cried; "have no fear of such gentle and
peaceable animals as we are."

"What a marvel!" cried the Princess, starting back a little. "Here is a
sheep that can talk."

"Your monkey and your dog could talk, madam," said he; "are you more
astonished at us than at them?"

"A fairy gave them the power to speak," replied Miranda. "So I was used
to them."

"Perhaps the same thing has happened to us," he said, smiling
sheepishly. "But, Princess, what can have led you here?"

"A thousand misfortunes, Sir Sheep," she answered.

"I am the unhappiest princess in the world, and I am seeking a shelter
against my father's anger."

"Come with me, madam," said the Sheep; "I offer you a hiding-place which
you only will know of, and where you will be mistress of everything you
see."

"I really cannot follow you," said Miranda, "for I am too tired to walk
another step."

The Sheep with the golden horns ordered that his chariot should be
fetched, and a moment after appeared six goats, harnessed to a pumpkin,
which was so big that two people could quite well sit in it, and was all
lined with cushions of velvet and down. The Princess stepped into it,
much amused at such a new kind of carriage, the King of the Sheep took
his place beside her, and the goats ran away with them at full speed,
and only stopped when they reached a cavern, the entrance to which
was blocked by a great stone. This the King touched with his foot, and
immediately it fell down, and he invited the Princess to enter without
fear. Now, if she had not been so alarmed by everything that had
happened, nothing could have induced her to go into this frightful cave,
but she was so afraid of what might be behind her that she would have
thrown herself even down a well at this moment. So, without hesitation,
she followed the Sheep, who went before her, down, down, down, until she
thought they must come out at the other side of the world--indeed, she
was not sure that he wasn't leading her into Fairyland. At last she saw
before her a great plain, quite covered with all sorts of flowers, the
scent of which seemed to her nicer than anything she had ever smelled
before; a broad river of orange-flower water flowed round it and
fountains of wine of every kind ran in all directions and made the
prettiest little cascades and brooks. The plain was covered with the
strangest trees, there were whole avenues where partridges, ready
roasted, hung from every branch, or, if you preferred pheasants, quails,
turkeys, or rabbits, you had only to turn to the right hand or to the
left and you were sure to find them. In places the air was darkened by
showers of lobster-patties, white puddings, sausages, tarts, and all
sorts of sweetmeats, or with pieces of gold and silver, diamonds and
pearls. This unusual kind of rain, and the pleasantness of the whole
place, would, no doubt, have attracted numbers of people to it, if the
King of the Sheep had been of a more sociable disposition, but from all
accounts it is evident that he was as grave as a judge.

As it was quite the nicest time of the year when Miranda arrived in this
delightful land the only palace she saw was a long row of orange trees,
jasmines, honeysuckles, and musk-roses, and their interlacing branches
made the prettiest rooms possible, which were hung with gold and silver
gauze, and had great mirrors and candlesticks, and most beautiful
pictures. The Wonderful Sheep begged that the Princess would consider
herself queen over all that she saw, and assured her that, though for
some years he had been very sad and in great trouble, she had it in her
power to make him forget all his grief.

"You are so kind and generous, noble Sheep," said the Princess, "that I
cannot thank you enough, but I must confess that all I see here seems to
me so extraordinary that I don't know what to think of it."

As she spoke a band of lovely fairies came up and offered her amber
baskets full of fruit, but when she held out her hands to them they
glided away, and she could feel nothing when she tried to touch them.

"Oh!" she cried, "what can they be? Whom am I with?" and she began to
cry.

At this instant the King of the Sheep came back to her, and was so
distracted to find her in tears that he could have torn his wool.

"What is the matter, lovely Princess?" he cried. "Has anyone failed to
treat you with due respect?"

"Oh! no," said Miranda; "only I am not used to living with sprites and
with sheep that talk, and everything here frightens me. It was very kind
of you to bring me to this place, but I shall be even more grateful to
you if you will take me up into the world again."

"Do not be afraid," said the Wonderful Sheep; "I entreat you to have
patience, and listen to the story of my misfortunes. I was once a king,
and my kingdom was the most splendid in the world. My subjects loved me,
my neighbors envied and feared me. I was respected by everyone, and it
was said that no king ever deserved it more.

"I was very fond of hunting, and one day, while chasing a stag, I left
my attendants far behind; suddenly I saw the animal leap into a pool of
water, and I rashly urged my horse to follow it, but before we had gone
many steps I felt an extraordinary heat, instead of the coolness of the
water; the pond dried up, a great gulf opened before me, out of which
flames of fire shot up, and I fell helplessly to the bottom of a
precipice.

"I gave myself up for lost, but presently a voice said: 'Ungrateful
Prince, even this fire is hardly enough to warm your cold heart!'

"'Who complains of my coldness in this dismal place?' I cried.

"'An unhappy being who loves you hopelessly,' replied the voice, and at
the same moment the flames began to flicker and cease to burn, and I
saw a fairy, whom I had known as long as I could remember, and whose
ugliness had always horrified me. She was leaning upon the arm of a
most beautiful young girl, who wore chains of gold on her wrists and was
evidently her slave.

"'Why, Ragotte,' I said, for that was the fairy's name, 'what is the
meaning of all this? Is it by your orders that I am here?'

"'And whose fault is it,' she answered, 'that you have never understood
me until now? Must a powerful fairy like myself condescend to explain
her doings to you who are no better than an ant by comparison, though
you think yourself a great king?'

"'Call me what you like,' I said impatiently; 'but what is it that you
want--my crown, or my cities, or my treasures?'

"'Treasures!' said the fairy, disdainfully. 'If I chose I could make
any one of my scullions richer and more powerful than you. I do not
want your treasures, but,' she added softly, 'if you will give me your
heart--if you will marry me--I will add twenty kingdoms to the one you
have already; you shall have a hundred castles full of gold and five
hundred full of silver, and, in short, anything you like to ask me for.'

"'Madam Ragotte,' said I, 'when one is at the bottom of a pit where one
has fully expected to be roasted alive, it is impossible to think of
asking such a charming person as you are to marry one! I beg that you
will set me at liberty, and then I shall hope to answer you fittingly.'

"'Ah!' said she, 'if you really loved me you would not care where you
were--a cave, a wood, a fox-hole, a desert, would please you equally
well. Do not think that you can deceive me; you fancy you are going to
escape, but I assure you that you are going to stay here and the first
thing I shall give you to do will be to keep my sheep--they are very
good company and speak quite as well as you do.

"As she spoke she advanced, and led me to this plain where we now stand,
and showed me her flock, but I paid little attention to it or to her.

"To tell the truth, I was so lost in admiration of her beautiful slave
that I forgot everything else, and the cruel Ragotte, perceiving this,
turned upon her so furious and terrible a look that she fell lifeless to
the ground.

"At this dreadful sight I drew my sword and rushed at Ragotte, and
should certainly have cut off her head had she not by her magic arts
chained me to the spot on which I stood; all my efforts to move were
useless, and at last, when I threw myself down on the ground in despair,
she said to me, with a scornful smile:

"'I intend to make you feel my power. It seems that you are a lion at
present, I mean you to be a sheep.'

"So saying, she touched me with her wand, and I became what you see. I
did not lose the power of speech, or of feeling the misery of my present
state.

"'For five years,' she said, 'you shall be a sheep, and lord of this
pleasant land, while I, no longer able to see your face, which I loved
so much, shall be better able to hate you as you deserve to be hated.'

"She disappeared as she finished speaking, and if I had not been too
unhappy to care about anything I should have been glad that she was
gone.

"The talking sheep received me as their king, and told me that they,
too, were unfortunate princes who had, in different ways, offended the
revengeful fairy, and had been added to her flock for a certain number
of years; some more, some less. From time to time, indeed, one regains
his own proper form and goes back again to his place in the upper world;
but the other beings whom you saw are the rivals or the enemies of
Ragotte, whom she has imprisoned for a hundred years or so; though even
they will go back at last. The young slave of whom I told you about is
one of these; I have seen her often, and it has been a great pleasure to
me. She never speaks to me, and if I were nearer to her I know I should
find her only a shadow, which would be very annoying. However, I noticed
that one of my companions in misfortune was also very attentive to this
little sprite, and I found out that he had been her lover, whom the
cruel Ragotte had taken away from her long before; since then I have
cared for, and thought of, nothing but how I might regain my freedom.
I have often been in the forest; that is where I have seen you, lovely
Princess, sometimes driving your chariot, which you did with all the
grace and skill in the world; sometimes riding to the chase on so
spirited a horse that it seemed as if no one but yourself could have
managed it, and sometimes running races on the plain with the Princesses
of your Court--running so lightly that it was you always who won the
prize. Oh! Princess, I have loved you so long, and yet how dare I
tell you of my love! what hope can there be for an unhappy sheep like
myself?"

Miranda was so surprised and confused by all that she had heard that
she hardly knew what answer to give to the King of the Sheep, but she
managed to make some kind of little speech, which certainly did not
forbid him to hope, and said that she should not be afraid of the
shadows now she knew that they would some day come to life again.
"Alas!" she continued, "if my poor Patypata, my dear Grabugeon, and
pretty little Tintin, who all died for my sake, were equally well off, I
should have nothing left to wish for here!"

Prisoner though he was, the King of the Sheep had still some powers and
privileges.

"Go," said he to his Master of the Horse, "go and seek the shadows of
the little black girl, the monkey, and the dog: they will amuse our
Princess."

And an instant afterward Miranda saw them coming toward her, and their
presence gave her the greatest pleasure, though they did not come near
enough for her to touch them.

The King of the Sheep was so kind and amusing, and loved Miranda so
dearly, that at last she began to love him too. Such a handsome
sheep, who was so polite and considerate, could hardly fail to please,
especially if one knew that he was really a king, and that his strange
imprisonment would soon come to an end. So the Princess's days passed
very gaily while she waited for the happy time to come. The King of
the Sheep, with the help of all the flock, got up balls, concerts, and
hunting parties, and even the shadows joined in all the fun, and came,
making believe to be their own real selves.

One evening, when the couriers arrived (for the King sent most carefully
for news--and they always brought the very best kinds), it was announced
that the sister of the Princess Miranda was going to be married to
a great Prince, and that nothing could be more splendid than all the
preparations for the wedding.

"Ah!" cried the young Princess, "how unlucky I am to miss the sight of
so many pretty things! Here am I imprisoned under the earth, with no
company but sheep and shadows, while my sister is to be adorned like a
queen and surrounded by all who love and admire her, and everyone but
myself can go to wish her joy!"

"Why do you complain, Princess?" said the King of the Sheep. "Did I say
that you were not to go to the wedding? Set out as soon as you please;
only promise me that you will come back, for I love you too much to be
able to live without you."

Miranda was very grateful to him, and promised faithfully that nothing
in the world should keep her from coming back. The King caused an escort
suitable to her rank to be got ready for her, and she dressed herself
splendidly, not forgetting anything that could make her more beautiful.
Her chariot was of mother-of-pearl, drawn by six dun-colored griffins
just brought from the other side of the world, and she was attended by a
number of guards in splendid uniforms, who were all at least eight feet
high and had come from far and near to ride in the Princess's train.

Miranda reached her father's palace just as the wedding ceremony began,
and everyone, as soon as she came in, was struck with surprise at
her beauty and the splendor of her jewels. She heard exclamations
of admiration on all sides; and the King her father looked at her so
attentively that she was afraid he must recognize her; but he was so
sure that she was dead that the idea never occurred to him.

However, the fear of not getting away made her leave before the marriage
was over. She went out hastily, leaving behind her a little coral casket
set with emeralds. On it was written in diamond letters: "Jewels for the
Bride," and when they opened it, which they did as soon as it was found,
there seemed to be no end to the pretty things it contained. The King,
who had hoped to join the unknown Princess and find out who she was,
was dreadfully disappointed when she disappeared so suddenly, and gave
orders that if she ever came again the doors were to be shut that she
might not get away so easily. Short as Miranda's absence had been, it
had seemed like a hundred years to the King of the Sheep. He was waiting
for her by a fountain in the thickest part of the forest, and the ground
was strewn with splendid presents which he had prepared for her to show
his joy and gratitude at her coming back.

As soon as she was in sight he rushed to meet her, leaping and bounding
like a real sheep. He caressed her tenderly, throwing himself at her
feet and kissing her hands, and told her how uneasy he had been in
her absence, and how impatient for her return, with an eloquence which
charmed her.

After some time came the news that the King's second daughter was going
to be married. When Miranda heard it she begged the King of the Sheep
to allow her to go and see the wedding as before. This request made him
feel very sad, as if some misfortune must surely come of it, but his
love for the Princess being stronger than anything else he did not like
to refuse her.

"You wish to leave me, Princess," said he; "it is my unhappy fate--you
are not to blame. I consent to your going, but, believe me, I can give
you no stronger proof of my love than by so doing."

The Princess assured him that she would only stay a very short time, as
she had done before, and begged him not to be uneasy, as she would be
quite as much grieved if anything detained her as he could possibly be.

So, with the same escort, she set out, and reached the palace as the
marriage ceremony began. Everybody was delighted to see her; she was
so pretty that they thought she must be some fairy princess, and the
Princes who were there could not take their eyes off her.

The King was more glad than anyone else that she had come again, and
gave orders that the doors should all be shut and bolted that very
minute. When the wedding was all but over the Princess got up quickly,
hoping to slip away unnoticed among the crowd, but, to her great dismay,
she found every door fastened.

She felt more at ease when the King came up to her, and with the
greatest respect begged her not to run away so soon, but at least to
honor him by staying for the splendid feast which was prepared for the
Princes and Princesses. He led her into a magnificent hall, where all
the Court was assembled, and himself taking up the golden bowl full of
water, he offered it to her that she might dip her pretty fingers into
it.

At this the Princess could no longer contain herself; throwing herself
at the King's feet, she cried out:

"My dream has come true after all--you have offered me water to wash my
hands on my sister's wedding day, and it has not vexed you to do it."

The King recognized her at once--indeed, he had already thought several
times how much like his poor little Miranda she was.

"Oh! my dear daughter," he cried, kissing her, "can you ever forget my
cruelty? I ordered you to be put to death because I thought your dream
portended the loss of my crown. And so it did," he added, "for now your
sisters are both married and have kingdoms of their own--and mine shall
be for you." So saying he put his crown on the Princess's head and
cried:

"Long live Queen Miranda!"

All the Court cried: "Long live Queen Miranda!" after him, and the young
Queen's two sisters came running up, and threw their arms round her
neck, and kissed her a thousand times, and then there was such a
laughing and crying, talking and kissing, all at once, and Miranda
thanked her father, and began to ask after everyone--particularly
the Captain of the Guard, to whom she owed so much; but, to her great
sorrow, she heard that he was dead. Presently they sat down to the
banquet, and the King asked Miranda to tell them all that had happened
to her since the terrible morning when he had sent the Captain of the
Guard to fetch her. This she did with so much spirit that all the guests
listened with breathless interest. But while she was thus enjoying
herself with the King and her sisters, the King of the Sheep was waiting
impatiently for the time of her return, and when it came and went, and
no Princess appeared, his anxiety became so great that he could bear it
no longer.

"She is not coming back any more," he cried. "My miserable sheep's
face displeases her, and without Miranda what is left to me, wretched
creature that I am! Oh! cruel Ragotte; my punishment is complete."

For a long time he bewailed his sad fate like this, and then, seeing
that it was growing dark, and that still there was no sign of the
Princess, he set out as fast as he could in the direction of the town.
When he reached the palace he asked for Miranda, but by this time
everyone had heard the story of her adventures, and did not want her to
go back again to the King of the Sheep, so they refused sternly to let
him see her. In vain he begged and prayed them to let him in; though
his entreaties might have melted hearts of stone they did not move the
guards of the palace, and at last, quite broken-hearted, he fell dead at
their feet.

In the meantime the King, who had not the least idea of the sad thing
that was happening outside the gate of his palace, proposed to Miranda
that she should be driven in her chariot all round the town, which was
to be illuminated with thousands and thousands of torches, placed in
windows and balconies, and in all the grand squares. But what a sight
met her eyes at the very entrance of the palace! There lay her dear,
kind sheep, silent and motionless, upon the pavement!

She threw herself out of the chariot and ran to him, crying bitterly,
for she realized that her broken promise had cost him his life, and for
a long, long time she was so unhappy that they thought she would have
died too.

So you see that even a princess is not always happy--especially if she
forgets to keep her word; and the greatest misfortunes often happen to
people just as they think they have obtained their heart's desires!(1)


(1) Madame d'Aulnoy.




LITTLE THUMB


There was, once upon a time, a man and his wife fagot-makers by trade,
who had several children, all boys. The eldest was but ten years old,
and the youngest only seven.

They were very poor, and their seven children incommoded them greatly,
because not one of them was able to earn his bread. That which gave
them yet more uneasiness was that the youngest was of a very puny
constitution, and scarce ever spoke a word, which made them take that
for stupidity which was a sign of good sense. He was very little, and
when born no bigger than one's thumb, which made him be called Little
Thumb.

The poor child bore the blame of whatsoever was done amiss in the house,
and, guilty or not, was always in the wrong; he was, notwithstanding,
more cunning and had a far greater share of wisdom than all his brothers
put together; and, if he spake little, he heard and thought the more.

There happened now to come a very bad year, and the famine was so great
that these poor people resolved to rid themselves of their children. One
evening, when they were all in bed and the fagot-maker was sitting with
his wife at the fire, he said to her, with his heart ready to burst with
grief:

"Thou seest plainly that we are not able to keep our children, and I
cannot see them starve to death before my face; I am resolved to lose
them in the wood to-morrow, which may very easily be done; for, while
they are busy in tying up fagots, we may run away, and leave them,
without their taking any notice."

"Ah!" cried his wife; "and canst thou thyself have the heart to take thy
children out along with thee on purpose to lose them?"

In vain did her husband represent to her their extreme poverty: she
would not consent to it; she was indeed poor, but she was their mother.
However, having considered what a grief it would be to her to see them
perish with hunger, she at last consented, and went to bed all in tears.

Little Thumb heard every word that had been spoken; for observing, as
he lay in his bed, that they were talking very busily, he got up softly,
and hid himself under his father's stool, that he might hear what they
said without being seen. He went to bed again, but did not sleep a wink
all the rest of the night, thinking on what he had to do. He got up
early in the morning, and went to the river-side, where he filled his
pockets full of small white pebbles, and then returned home.

They all went abroad, but Little Thumb never told his brothers one
syllable of what he knew. They went into a very thick forest, where they
could not see one another at ten paces distance. The fagot-maker began
to cut wood, and the children to gather up the sticks to make fagots.
Their father and mother, seeing them busy at their work, got away from
them insensibly, and ran away from them all at once, along a by-way
through the winding bushes.

When the children saw they were left alone, they began to cry as loud as
they could. Little Thumb let them cry on, knowing very well how to get
home again, for, as he came, he took care to drop all along the way the
little white pebbles he had in his pockets. Then he said to them:

"Be not afraid, brothers; father and mother have left us here, but I
will lead you home again, only follow me."

They did so, and he brought them home by the very same way they came
into the forest. They dared not go in, but sat themselves down at the
door, listening to what their father and mother were saying.

The very moment the fagot-maker and his wife reached home the lord of
the manor sent them ten crowns, which he had owed them a long while, and
which they never expected. This gave them new life, for the poor people
were almost famished. The fagot-maker sent his wife immediately to the
butcher's. As it was a long while since they had eaten a bit, she bought
thrice as much meat as would sup two people. When they had eaten, the
woman said:

"Alas! where are now our poor children? they would make a good feast of
what we have left here; but it was you, William, who had a mind to lose
them: I told you we should repent of it. What are they now doing in the
forest? Alas! dear God, the wolves have perhaps already eaten them up;
thou art very inhuman thus to have lost thy children."

The fagot-maker grew at last quite out of patience, for she repeated it
above twenty times, that they should repent of it, and that she was in
the right of it for so saying. He threatened to beat her if she did not
hold her tongue. It was not that the fagot-maker was not, perhaps, more
vexed than his wife, but that she teased him, and that he was of the
humor of a great many others, who love wives to speak well, but
think those very importunate who are continually doing so. She was
half-drowned in tears, crying out:

"Alas! where are now my children, my poor children?"

She spoke this so very loud that the children, who were at the gate,
began to cry out all together:

"Here we are! Here we are!"

She ran immediately to open the door, and said, hugging them:

"I am glad to see you, my dear children; you are very hungry and weary;
and my poor Peter, thou art horribly bemired; come in and let me clean
thee."

Now, you must know that Peter was her eldest son, whom she loved above
all the rest, because he was somewhat carroty, as she herself was. They
sat down to supper, and ate with such a good appetite as pleased both
father and mother, whom they acquainted how frightened they were in
the forest, speaking almost always all together. The good folks were
extremely glad to see their children once more at home, and this joy
continued while the ten crowns lasted; but, when the money was all gone,
they fell again into their former uneasiness, and resolved to lose them
again; and, that they might be the surer of doing it, to carry them to a
much greater distance than before.

They could not talk of this so secretly but they were overheard by
Little Thumb, who made account to get out of this difficulty as well as
the former; but, though he got up very early in the morning to go and
pick up some little pebbles, he was disappointed, for he found the
house-door double-locked, and was at a stand what to do. When their
father had given each of them a piece of bread for their breakfast,
Little Thumb fancied he might make use of this instead of the pebbles by
throwing it in little bits all along the way they should pass; and so he
put the bread in his pocket.

Their father and mother brought them into the thickest and most obscure
part of the forest, when, stealing away into a by-path, they there left
them. Little Thumb was not very uneasy at it, for he thought he could
easily find the way again by means of his bread, which he had scattered
all along as he came; but he was very much surprised when he could not
find so much as one crumb; the birds had come and had eaten it up, every
bit. They were now in great affliction, for the farther they went the
more they were out of their way, and were more and more bewildered in
the forest.

Night now came on, and there arose a terribly high wind, which made them
dreadfully afraid. They fancied they heard on every side of them the
howling of wolves coming to eat them up. They scarce dared to speak or
turn their heads. After this, it rained very hard, which wetted them to
the skin; their feet slipped at every step they took, and they fell into
the mire, whence they got up in a very dirty pickle; their hands were
quite benumbed.

Little Thumb climbed up to the top of a tree, to see if he could
discover anything; and having turned his head about on every side, he
saw at last a glimmering light, like that of a candle, but a long way
from the forest. He came down, and, when upon the ground, he could see
it no more, which grieved him sadly. However, having walked for some
time with his brothers toward that side on which he had seen the light,
he perceived it again as he came out of the wood.

They came at last to the house where this candle was, not without an
abundance of fear: for very often they lost sight of it, which happened
every time they came into a bottom. They knocked at the door, and a good
woman came and opened it; she asked them what they would have.

Little Thumb told her they were poor children who had been lost in the
forest, and desired to lodge there for God's sake.

The woman, seeing them so very pretty, began to weep, and said to them:

"Alas! poor babies; whither are ye come? Do ye know that this house
belongs to a cruel ogre who eats up little children?"

"Ah! dear madam," answered Little Thumb (who trembled every joint of
him, as well as his brothers), "what shall we do? To be sure the wolves
of the forest will devour us to-night if you refuse us to lie here; and
so we would rather the gentleman should eat us; and perhaps he may take
pity upon us, especially if you please to beg it of him."

The Ogre's wife, who believed she could conceal them from her husband
till morning, let them come in, and brought them to warm themselves at a
very good fire; for there was a whole sheep upon the spit, roasting for
the Ogre's supper.

As they began to be a little warm they heard three or four great raps at
the door; this was the Ogre, who had come home. Upon this she hid them
under the bed and went to open the door. The Ogre presently asked if
supper was ready and the wine drawn, and then sat himself down to table.
The sheep was as yet all raw and bloody; but he liked it the better for
that. He sniffed about to the right and left, saying:

"I smell fresh meat."

"What you smell so," said his wife, "must be the calf which I have just
now killed and flayed."

"I smell fresh meat, I tell thee once more," replied the Ogre, looking
crossly at his wife; "and there is something here which I do not
understand."

As he spoke these words he got up from the table and went directly to
the bed.

"Ah, ah!" said he; "I see then how thou wouldst cheat me, thou cursed
woman; I know not why I do not eat thee up too, but it is well for thee
that thou art a tough old carrion. Here is good game, which comes very
quickly to entertain three ogres of my acquaintance who are to pay me a
visit in a day or two."

With that he dragged them out from under the bed one by one. The poor
children fell upon their knees, and begged his pardon; but they had to
do with one of the most cruel ogres in the world, who, far from having
any pity on them, had already devoured them with his eyes, and told
his wife they would be delicate eating when tossed up with good
savory sauce. He then took a great knife, and, coming up to these poor
children, whetted it upon a great whet-stone which he held in his left
hand. He had already taken hold of one of them when his wife said to
him:

"Why need you do it now? Is it not time enough to-morrow?"

"Hold your prating," said the Ogre; "they will eat the tenderer.

"But you have so much meat already," replied his wife, "you have no
occasion; here are a calf, two sheep, and half a hog."

"That is true," said the Ogre; "give them their belly full that they may
not fall away, and put them to bed."

The good woman was overjoyed at this, and gave them a good supper; but
they were so much afraid they could not eat a bit. As for the Ogre,
he sat down again to drink, being highly pleased that he had got
wherewithal to treat his friends. He drank a dozen glasses more than
ordinary, which got up into his head and obliged him to go to bed.

The Ogre had seven daughters, all little children, and these young
ogresses had all of them very fine complexions, because they used to
eat fresh meat like their father; but they had little gray eyes, quite
round, hooked noses, and very long sharp teeth, standing at a
good distance from each other. They were not as yet over and above
mischievous, but they promised very fair for it, for they had already
bitten little children, that they might suck their blood.

They had been put to bed early, with every one a crown of gold upon her
head. There was in the same chamber a bed of the like bigness, and it
was into this bed the Ogre's wife put the seven little boys, after which
she went to bed to her husband.

Little Thumb, who had observed that the Ogre's daughters had crowns of
gold upon their heads, and was afraid lest the Ogre should repent his
not killing them, got up about midnight, and, taking his brothers'
bonnets and his own, went very softly and put them upon the heads of
the seven little ogresses, after having taken off their crowns of gold,
which he put upon his own head and his brothers', that the Ogre might
take them for his daughters, and his daughters for the little boys whom
he wanted to kill.

All this succeeded according to his desire; for, the Ogre waking about
midnight, and sorry that he deferred to do that till morning which
he might have done over-night, threw himself hastily out of bed, and,
taking his great knife,

"Let us see," said he, "how our little rogues do, and not make two jobs
of the matter."

He then went up, groping all the way, into his daughters' chamber, and,
coming to the bed where the little boys lay, and who were every soul of
them fast asleep, except Little Thumb, who was terribly afraid when
he found the Ogre fumbling about his head, as he had done about his
brothers', the Ogre, feeling the golden crowns, said:

"I should have made a fine piece of work of it, truly; I find I drank
too much last night."

Then he went to the bed where the girls lay; and, having found the boys'
little bonnets,

"Ah!" said he, "my merry lads, are you there? Let us work as we ought."

And saying these words, without more ado, he cut the throats of all his
seven daughters.

Well pleased with what he had done, he went to bed again to his wife.
So soon as Little Thumb heard the Ogre snore, he waked his brothers, and
bade them all put on their clothes presently and follow him. They stole
down softly into the garden, and got over the wall. They kept running
about all night, and trembled all the while, without knowing which way
they went.

The Ogre, when he awoke, said to his wife: "Go upstairs and dress those
young rascals who came here last night."

The wife was very much surprised at this goodness of her husband, not
dreaming after what manner she should dress them; but, thinking that
he had ordered her to go and put on their clothes, she went up, and was
strangely astonished when she perceived her seven daughters killed, and
weltering in their blood.

She fainted away, for this is the first expedient almost all women find
in such cases. The Ogre, fearing his wife would be too long in doing
what he had ordered, went up himself to help her. He was no less amazed
than his wife at this frightful spectacle.

"Ah! what have I done?" cried he. "The wretches shall pay for it, and
that instantly."

He threw a pitcher of water upon his wife's face, and, having brought
her to herself, said:

"Give me quickly my boots of seven leagues, that I may go and catch
them."

He went out, and, having run over a vast deal of ground, both on
this side and that, he came at last into the very road where the poor
children were, and not above a hundred paces from their father's house.
They espied the Ogre, who went at one step from mountain to mountain,
and over rivers as easily as the narrowest kennels. Little Thumb, seeing
a hollow rock near the place where they were, made his brothers hide
themselves in it, and crowded into it himself, minding always what would
become of the Ogre.

The Ogre, who found himself much tired with his long and fruitless
journey (for these boots of seven leagues greatly fatigued the wearer),
had a great mind to rest himself, and, by chance, went to sit down upon
the rock where the little boys had hid themselves. As it was impossible
he could be more weary than he was, he fell asleep, and, after reposing
himself some time, began to snore so frightfully that the poor children
were no less afraid of him than when he held up his great knife and was
going to cut their throats. Little Thumb was not so much frightened as
his brothers, and told them that they should run away immediately toward
home while the Ogre was asleep so soundly, and that they should not be
in any pain about him. They took his advice, and got home presently.
Little Thumb came up to the Ogre, pulled off his boots gently and put
them on his own legs. The boots were very long and large, but, as they
were fairies, they had the gift of becoming big and little, according to
the legs of those who wore them; so that they fitted his feet and legs
as well as if they had been made on purpose for him. He went immediately
to the Ogre's house, where he saw his wife crying bitterly for the loss
of the Ogre's murdered daughters.

"Your husband," said Little Thumb, "is in very great danger, being taken
by a gang of thieves, who have sworn to kill him if he does not give
them all his gold and silver. The very moment they held their daggers
at his throat he perceived me, and desired me to come and tell you the
condition he is in, and that you should give me whatsoever he has of
value, without retaining any one thing; for otherwise they will kill him
without mercy; and, as his case is very pressing, he desired me to make
use (you see I have them on) of his boots, that I might make the more
haste and to show you that I do not impose upon you."

The good woman, being sadly frightened, gave him all she had: for this
Ogre was a very good husband, though he used to eat up little children.
Little Thumb, having thus got all the Ogre's money, came home to his
father's house, where he was received with abundance of joy.

There are many people who do not agree in this circumstance, and pretend
that Little Thumb never robbed the Ogre at all, and that he only thought
he might very justly, and with a safe conscience, take off his boots
of seven leagues, because he made no other use of them but to run after
little children. These folks affirm that they are very well assured of
this, and the more as having drunk and eaten often at the fagot-maker's
house. They aver that when Little Thumb had taken off the Ogre's boots
he went to Court, where he was informed that they were very much in pain
about a certain army, which was two hundred leagues off, and the success
of a battle. He went, say they, to the King, and told him that, if he
desired it, he would bring him news from the army before night.

The King promised him a great sum of money upon that condition. Little
Thumb was as good as his word, and returned that very same night with
the news; and, this first expedition causing him to be known, he got
whatever he pleased, for the King paid him very well for carrying his
orders to the army. After having for some time carried on the business
of a messenger, and gained thereby great wealth, he went home to his
father, where it was impossible to express the joy they were all in at
his return. He made the whole family very easy, bought places for his
father and brothers, and, by that means, settled them very handsomely in
the world, and, in the meantime, made his court to perfection.(1)


(1) Charles Perrault.




THE FORTY THIEVES


In a town in Persia there dwelt two brothers, one named Cassim, the
other Ali Baba. Cassim was married to a rich wife and lived in plenty,
while Ali Baba had to maintain his wife and children by cutting wood in
a neighboring forest and selling it in the town. One day, when Ali Baba
was in the forest, he saw a troop of men on horseback, coming toward him
in a cloud of dust. He was afraid they were robbers, and climbed into
a tree for safety. When they came up to him and dismounted, he counted
forty of them. They unbridled their horses and tied them to trees. The
finest man among them, whom Ali Baba took to be their captain, went a
little way among some bushes, and said: "Open, Sesame!"(1) so plainly
that Ali Baba heard him. A door opened in the rocks, and having made the
troop go in, he followed them, and the door shut again of itself. They
stayed some time inside, and Ali Baba, fearing they might come out and
catch him, was forced to sit patiently in the tree. At last the door
opened again, and the Forty Thieves came out. As the Captain went in
last he came out first, and made them all pass by him; he then closed
the door, saying: "Shut, Sesame!" Every man bridled his horse and
mounted, the Captain put himself at their head, and they returned as
they came.


(1) Sesame is a kind of grain.


Then Ali Baba climbed down and went to the door concealed among the
bushes, and said: "Open, Sesame!" and it flew open. Ali Baba, who
expected a dull, dismal place, was greatly surprised to find it large
and well lighted, hollowed by the hand of man in the form of a vault,
which received the light from an opening in the ceiling. He saw rich
bales of merchandise--silk, stuff-brocades, all piled together, and gold
and silver in heaps, and money in leather purses. He went in and the
door shut behind him. He did not look at the silver, but brought out as
many bags of gold as he thought his asses, which were browsing outside,
could carry, loaded them with the bags, and hid it all with fagots.
Using the words: "Shut, Sesame!" he closed the door and went home.

Then he drove his asses into the yard, shut the gates, carried the
money-bags to his wife, and emptied them out before her. He bade her
keep the secret, and he would go and bury the gold. "Let me first
measure it," said his wife. "I will go borrow a measure of someone,
while you dig the hole." So she ran to the wife of Cassim and borrowed a
measure. Knowing Ali Baba's poverty, the sister was curious to find out
what sort of grain his wife wished to measure, and artfully put some
suet at the bottom of the measure. Ali Baba's wife went home and set the
measure on the heap of gold, and filled it and emptied it often, to her
great content. She then carried it back to her sister, without noticing
that a piece of gold was sticking to it, which Cassim's wife perceived
directly her back was turned. She grew very curious, and said to Cassim
when he came home: "Cassim, your brother is richer than you. He does not
count his money, he measures it." He begged her to explain this riddle,
which she did by showing him the piece of money and telling him where
she found it. Then Cassim grew so envious that he could not sleep, and
went to his brother in the morning before sunrise. "Ali Baba," he said,
showing him the gold piece, "you pretend to be poor and yet you measure
gold." By this Ali Baba perceived that through his wife's folly Cassim
and his wife knew their secret, so he confessed all and offered Cassim a
share. "That I expect," said Cassim; "but I must know where to find the
treasure, otherwise I will discover all, and you will lose all." Ali
Baba, more out of kindness than fear, told him of the cave, and the very
words to use. Cassim left Ali Baba, meaning to be beforehand with him
and get the treasure for himself. He rose early next morning, and set
out with ten mules loaded with great chests. He soon found the place,
and the door in the rock. He said: "Open, Sesame!" and the door opened
and shut behind him. He could have feasted his eyes all day on the
treasures, but he now hastened to gather together as much of it as
possible; but when he was ready to go he could not remember what to say
for thinking of his great riches. Instead of "Sesame," he said: "Open,
Barley!" and the door remained fast. He named several different sorts of
grain, all but the right one, and the door still stuck fast. He was so
frightened at the danger he was in that he had as much forgotten the
word as if he had never heard it.

About noon the robbers returned to their cave, and saw Cassim's mules
roving about with great chests on their backs. This gave them the alarm;
they drew their sabres, and went to the door, which opened on their
Captain's saying: "Open, Sesame!" Cassim, who had heard the trampling of
their horses' feet, resolved to sell his life dearly, so when the door
opened he leaped out and threw the Captain down. In vain, however, for
the robbers with their sabres soon killed him. On entering the cave they
saw all the bags laid ready, and could not imagine how anyone had got in
without knowing their secret. They cut Cassim's body into four quarters,
and nailed them up inside the cave, in order to frighten anyone who
should venture in, and went away in search of more treasure.

As night drew on Cassim's wife grew very uneasy, and ran to her
brother-in-law, and told him where her husband had gone. Ali Baba did
his best to comfort her, and set out to the forest in search of Cassim.
The first thing he saw on entering the cave was his dead brother. Full
of horror, he put the body on one of his asses, and bags of gold on the
other two, and, covering all with some fagots, returned home. He drove
the two asses laden with gold into his own yard, and led the other to
Cassim's house. The door was opened by the slave Morgiana, whom he knew
to be both brave and cunning. Unloading the ass, he said to her: "This
is the body of your master, who has been murdered, but whom we must bury
as though he had died in his bed. I will speak with you again, but now
tell your mistress I am come." The wife of Cassim, on learning the fate
of her husband, broke out into cries and tears, but Ali Baba offered to
take her to live with him and his wife if she would promise to keep
his counsel and leave everything to Morgiana; whereupon she agreed, and
dried her eyes.

Morgiana, meanwhile, sought an apothecary and asked him for some
lozenges. "My poor master," she said, "can neither eat nor speak, and
no one knows what his distemper is." She carried home the lozenges and
returned next day weeping, and asked for an essence only given to those
just about to die. Thus, in the evening, no one was surprised to hear
the wretched shrieks and cries of Cassim's wife and Morgiana, telling
everyone that Cassim was dead. The day after Morgiana went to an old
cobbler near the gates of the town who opened his stall early, put a
piece of gold in his hand, and bade him follow her with his needle and
thread. Having bound his eyes with a handkerchief, she took him to the
room where the body lay, pulled off the bandage, and bade him sew the
quarters together, after which she covered his eyes again and led him
home. Then they buried Cassim, and Morgiana his slave followed him to
the grave, weeping and tearing her hair, while Cassim's wife stayed at
home uttering lamentable cries. Next day she went to live with Ali Baba,
who gave Cassim's shop to his eldest son.

The Forty Thieves, on their return to the cave, were much astonished to
find Cassim's body gone and some of their money-bags. "We are certainly
discovered," said the Captain, "and shall be undone if we cannot find
out who it is that knows our secret. Two men must have known it; we have
killed one, we must now find the other. To this end one of you who
is bold and artful must go into the city dressed as a traveler, and
discover whom we have killed, and whether men talk of the strange manner
of his death. If the messenger fails he must lose his life, lest we be
betrayed." One of the thieves started up and offered to do this, and
after the rest had highly commended him for his bravery he disguised
himself, and happened to enter the town at daybreak, just by Baba
Mustapha's stall. The thief bade him good-day, saying: "Honest man, how
can you possibly see to stitch at your age?" "Old as I am," replied the
cobbler, "I have very good eyes, and will you believe me when I tell you
that I sewed a dead body together in a place where I had less light than
I have now." The robber was overjoyed at his good fortune, and, giving
him a piece of gold, desired to be shown the house where he stitched
up the dead body. At first Mustapha refused, saying that he had been
blindfolded; but when the robber gave him another piece of gold he began
to think he might remember the turnings if blindfolded as before. This
means succeeded; the robber partly led him, and was partly guided by
him, right in front of Cassim's house, the door of which the robber
marked with a piece of chalk. Then, well pleased, he bade farewell to
Baba Mustapha and returned to the forest. By and by Morgiana, going out,
saw the mark the robber had made, quickly guessed that some mischief was
brewing, and fetching a piece of chalk marked two or three doors on each
side, without saying anything to her master or mistress.

The thief, meantime, told his comrades of his discovery. The Captain
thanked him, and bade him show him the house he had marked. But when
they came to it they saw that five or six of the houses were chalked
in the same manner. The guide was so confounded that he knew not what
answer to make, and when they returned he was at once beheaded for
having failed. Another robber was dispatched, and, having won over Baba
Mustapha, marked the house in red chalk; but Morgiana being again too
clever for them, the second messenger was put to death also. The Captain
now resolved to go himself, but, wiser than the others, he did not
mark the house, but looked at it so closely that he could not fail to
remember it. He returned, and ordered his men to go into the neighboring
villages and buy nineteen mules, and thirty-eight leather jars, all
empty except one, which was full of oil. The Captain put one of his men,
fully armed, into each, rubbing the outside of the jars with oil from
the full vessel. Then the nineteen mules were loaded with thirty-seven
robbers in jars, and the jar of oil, and reached the town by dusk. The
Captain stopped his mules in front of Ali Baba's house, and said to Ali
Baba, who was sitting outside for coolness: "I have brought some oil
from a distance to sell at to-morrow's market, but it is now so late
that I know not where to pass the night, unless you will do me the favor
to take me in." Though Ali Baba had seen the Captain of the robbers in
the forest, he did not recognize him in the disguise of an oil merchant.
He bade him welcome, opened his gates for the mules to enter, and
went to Morgiana to bid her prepare a bed and supper for his guest. He
brought the stranger into his hall, and after they had supped went again
to speak to Morgiana in the kitchen, while the Captain went into the
yard under pretense of seeing after his mules, but really to tell his
men what to do. Beginning at the first jar and ending at the last, he
said to each man: "As soon as I throw some stones from the window of the
chamber where I lie, cut the jars open with your knives and come out,
and I will be with you in a trice." He returned to the house,
and Morgiana led him to his chamber. She then told Abdallah, her
fellow-slave, to set on the pot to make some broth for her master, who
had gone to bed. Meanwhile her lamp went out, and she had no more oil in
the house. "Do not be uneasy," said Abdallah; "go into the yard and take
some out of one of those jars." Morgiana thanked him for his advice,
took the oil pot, and went into the yard. When she came to the first jar
the robber inside said softly: "Is it time?"

Any other slave but Morgiana, on finding a man in the jar instead of the
oil she wanted, would have screamed and made a noise; but she, knowing
the danger her master was in, bethought herself of a plan, and answered
quietly: "Not yet, but presently." She went to all the jars, giving
the same answer, till she came to the jar of oil. She now saw that her
master, thinking to entertain an oil merchant, had let thirty-eight
robbers into his house. She filled her oil pot, went back to the
kitchen, and, having lit her lamp, went again to the oil jar and filled
a large kettle full of oil. When it boiled she went and poured enough
oil into every jar to stifle and kill the robber inside. When this brave
deed was done she went back to the kitchen, put out the fire and the
lamp, and waited to see what would happen.

In a quarter of an hour the Captain of the robbers awoke, got up,
and opened the window. As all seemed quiet, he threw down some little
pebbles which hit the jars. He listened, and as none of his men seemed
to stir he grew uneasy, and went down into the yard. On going to the
first jar and saying, "Are you asleep?" he smelt the hot boiled oil, and
knew at once that his plot to murder Ali Baba and his household had been
discovered. He found all the gang was dead, and, missing the oil out of
the last jar, became aware of the manner of their death. He then forced
the lock of a door leading into a garden, and climbing over several
walls made his escape. Morgiana heard and saw all this, and, rejoicing
at her success, went to bed and fell asleep.

At daybreak Ali Baba arose, and, seeing the oil jars still there, asked
why the merchant had not gone with his mules. Morgiana bade him look
in the first jar and see if there was any oil. Seeing a man, he started
back in terror. "Have no fear," said Morgiana; "the man cannot harm
you: he is dead." Ali Baba, when he had recovered somewhat from his
astonishment, asked what had become of the merchant. "Merchant!" said
she, "he is no more a merchant than I am!" and she told him the whole
story, assuring him that it was a plot of the robbers of the forest, of
whom only three were left, and that the white and red chalk marks had
something to do with it. Ali Baba at once gave Morgiana her freedom,
saying that he owed her his life. They then buried the bodies in Ali
Baba's garden, while the mules were sold in the market by his slaves.

The Captain returned to his lonely cave, which seemed frightful to
him without his lost companions, and firmly resolved to avenge them by
killing Ali Baba. He dressed himself carefully, and went into the town,
where he took lodgings in an inn. In the course of a great many journeys
to the forest he carried away many rich stuffs and much fine linen, and
set up a shop opposite that of Ali Baba's son. He called himself Cogia
Hassan, and as he was both civil and well dressed he soon made friends
with Ali Baba's son, and through him with Ali Baba, whom he was
continually asking to sup with him. Ali Baba, wishing to return his
kindness, invited him into his house and received him smiling, thanking
him for his kindness to his son. When the merchant was about to take his
leave Ali Baba stopped him, saying: "Where are you going, sir, in such
haste? Will you not stay and sup with me?" The merchant refused, saying
that he had a reason; and, on Ali Baba's asking him what that was, he
replied: "It is, sir, that I can eat no victuals that have any salt
in them." "If that is all," said Ali Baba, "let me tell you that there
shall be no salt in either the meat or the bread that we eat to-night."
He went to give this order to Morgiana, who was much surprised. "Who is
this man," she said, "who eats no salt with his meat?" "He is an honest
man, Morgiana," returned her master; "therefore do as I bid you." But
she could not withstand a desire to see this strange man, so she helped
Abdallah to carry up the dishes, and saw in a moment that Cogia Hassan
was the robber Captain, and carried a dagger under his garment. "I am
not surprised," she said to herself, "that this wicked man, who intends
to kill my master, will eat no salt with him; but I will hinder his
plans."

She sent up the supper by Abdallah, while she made ready for one of the
boldest acts that could be thought on. When the dessert had been served,
Cogia Hassan was left alone with Ali Baba and his son, whom he thought
to make drunk and then to murder them. Morgiana, meanwhile, put on a
head-dress like a dancing-girl's, and clasped a girdle round her waist,
from which hung a dagger with a silver hilt, and said to Abdallah: "Take
your tabor, and let us go and divert our master and his guest." Abdallah
took his tabor and played before Morgiana until they came to the door,
where Abdallah stopped playing and Morgiana made a low courtesy. "Come
in, Morgiana," said Ali Baba, "and let Cogia Hassan see what you can
do"; and, turning to Cogia Hassan, he said: "She's my slave and my
housekeeper." Cogia Hassan was by no means pleased, for he feared
that his chance of killing Ali Baba was gone for the present; but he
pretended great eagerness to see Morgiana, and Abdallah began to play
and Morgiana to dance. After she had performed several dances she drew
her dagger and made passes with it, sometimes pointing it at her own
breast, sometimes at her master's, as if it were part of the dance.
Suddenly, out of breath, she snatched the tabor from Abdallah with her
left hand, and, holding the dagger in her right hand, held out the tabor
to her master. Ali Baba and his son put a piece of gold into it, and
Cogia Hassan, seeing that she was coming to him, pulled out his purse to
make her a present, but while he was putting his hand into it Morgiana
plunged the dagger into his heart.

"Unhappy girl!" cried Ali Baba and his son, "what have you done to ruin
us?"

"It was to preserve you, master, not to ruin you," answered Morgiana.
"See here," opening the false merchant's garment and showing the dagger;
"see what an enemy you have entertained! Remember, he would eat no salt
with you, and what more would you have? Look at him! he is both the
false oil merchant and the Captain of the Forty Thieves."

Ali Baba was so grateful to Morgiana for thus saving his life that he
offered her to his son in marriage, who readily consented, and a few
days after the wedding was celebrated with greatest splendor.

At the end of a year Ali Baba, hearing nothing of the two remaining
robbers, judged they were dead, and set out to the cave. The door opened
on his saying: "Open Sesame!" He went in, and saw that nobody had been
there since the Captain left it. He brought away as much gold as he
could carry, and returned to town. He told his son the secret of
the cave, which his son handed down in his turn, so the children and
grandchildren of Ali Baba were rich to the end of their lives.(1)


(1) Arabian Nights.




HANSEL AND GRETTEL


Once upon a time there dwelt on the outskirts of a large forest a poor
woodcutter with his wife and two children; the boy was called Hansel and
the girl Grettel. He had always little enough to live on, and once, when
there was a great famine in the land, he couldn't even provide them with
daily bread. One night, as he was tossing about in bed, full of cares
and worry, he sighed and said to his wife: "What's to become of us? how
are we to support our poor children, now that we have nothing more for
ourselves?" "I'll tell you what, husband," answered the woman; "early
to-morrow morning we'll take the children out into the thickest part
of the wood; there we shall light a fire for them and give them each a
piece of bread; then we'll go on to our work and leave them alone. They
won't be able to find their way home, and we shall thus be rid of them."
"No, wife," said her husband, "that I won't do; how could I find it in
my heart to leave my children alone in the wood? The wild beasts would
soon come and tear them to pieces." "Oh! you fool," said she, "then we
must all four die of hunger, and you may just as well go and plane the
boards for our coffins"; and she left him no peace till he consented.
"But I can't help feeling sorry for the poor children," added the
husband.

The children, too, had not been able to sleep for hunger, and had heard
what their step-mother had said to their father. Grettel wept bitterly
and spoke to Hansel: "Now it's all up with us." "No, no, Grettel," said
Hansel, "don't fret yourself; I'll be able to find a way to escape, no
fear." And when the old people had fallen asleep he got up, slipped
on his little coat, opened the back door and stole out. The moon was
shining clearly, and the white pebbles which lay in front of the house
glittered like bits of silver. Hansel bent down and filled his pocket
with as many of them as he could cram in. Then he went back and said to
Grettel: "Be comforted, my dear little sister, and go to sleep: God will
not desert us"; and he lay down in bed again.

At daybreak, even before the sun was up, the woman came and woke the two
children: "Get up, you lie-abeds, we're all going to the forest to fetch
wood." She gave them each a bit of bread and said: "There's something
for your luncheon, but don't you eat it up before, for it's all you'll
get." Grettel took the bread under her apron, as Hansel had the stones
in his pocket. Then they all set out together on the way to the forest.
After they had walked for a little, Hansel stood still and looked back
at the house, and this maneuver he repeated again and again. His father
observed him, and said: "Hansel, what are you gazing at there, and why
do you always remain behind? Take care, and don't lose your footing."
"Oh! father," said Hansel, "I am looking back at my white kitten, which
is sitting on the roof, waving me a farewell." The woman exclaimed:
"What a donkey you are! that isn't your kitten, that's the morning sun
shining on the chimney." But Hansel had not looked back at his kitten,
but had always dropped one of the white pebbles out of his pocket on to
the path.

When they had reached the middle of the forest the father said: "Now,
children, go and fetch a lot of wood, and I'll light a fire that you
may not feel cold." Hansel and Grettel heaped up brushwood till they had
made a pile nearly the size of a small hill. The brushwood was set fire
to, and when the flames leaped high the woman said: "Now lie down at the
fire, children, and rest yourselves: we are going into the forest to cut
down wood; when we've finished we'll come back and fetch you." Hansel
and Grettel sat down beside the fire, and at midday ate their little
bits of bread. They heard the strokes of the axe, so they thought their
father was quite near. But it was no axe they heard, but a bough he had
tied on a dead tree, and that was blown about by the wind. And when they
had sat for a long time their eyes closed with fatigue, and they fell
fast asleep. When they awoke at last it was pitch dark. Grettel began
to cry, and said: "How are we ever to get out of the wood?" But Hansel
comforted her. "Wait a bit," he said, "till the moon is up, and then
we'll find our way sure enough." And when the full moon had risen he
took his sister by the hand and followed the pebbles, which shone like
new threepenny bits, and showed them the path. They walked on through
the night, and at daybreak reached their father's house again. They
knocked at the door, and when the woman opened it she exclaimed: "You
naughty children, what a time you've slept in the wood! we thought
you were never going to come back." But the father rejoiced, for
his conscience had reproached him for leaving his children behind by
themselves.

Not long afterward there was again great dearth in the land, and the
children heard their mother address their father thus in bed one night:
"Everything is eaten up once more; we have only half a loaf in the
house, and when that's done it's all up with us. The children must be
got rid of; we'll lead them deeper into the wood this time, so that
they won't be able to find their way out again. There is no other way
of saving ourselves." The man's heart smote him heavily, and he thought:
"Surely it would be better to share the last bite with one's children!"
But his wife wouldn't listen to his arguments, and did nothing but scold
and reproach him. If a man yields once he's done for, and so, because he
had given in the first time, he was forced to do so the second.

But the children were awake, and had heard the conversation. When the
old people were asleep Hansel got up, and wanted to go out and pick up
pebbles again, as he had done the first time; but the woman had barred
the door, and Hansel couldn't get out. But he consoled his little
sister, and said: "Don't cry, Grettel, and sleep peacefully, for God is
sure to help us."

At early dawn the woman came and made the children get up. They received
their bit of bread, but it was even smaller than the time before. On the
way to the wood Hansel crumbled it in his pocket, and every few minutes
he stood still and dropped a crumb on the ground. "Hansel, what are you
stopping and looking about you for?" said the father. "I'm looking back
at my little pigeon, which is sitting on the roof waving me a farewell,"
answered Hansel. "Fool!" said the wife; "that isn't your pigeon, it's
the morning sun glittering on the chimney." But Hansel gradually threw
all his crumbs on the path. The woman led the children still deeper into
the forest farther than they had ever been in their lives before. Then
a big fire was lit again, and the mother said: "Just sit down there,
children, and if you're tired you can sleep a bit; we're going into the
forest to cut down wood, and in the evening when we're finished we'll
come back to fetch you." At midday Grettel divided her bread with
Hansel, for he had strewn his all along their path. Then they fell
asleep, and evening passed away, but nobody came to the poor children.
They didn't awake till it was pitch dark, and Hansel comforted his
sister, saying: "Only wait, Grettel, till the moon rises, then we shall
see the bread-crumbs I scattered along the path; they will show us the
way back to the house." When the moon appeared they got up, but they
found no crumbs, for the thousands of birds that fly about the woods
and fields had picked them all up. "Never mind," said Hansel to Grettel;
"you'll see we'll find a way out"; but all the same they did not. They
wandered about the whole night, and the next day, from morning till
evening, but they could not find a path out of the wood. They were very
hungry, too, for they had nothing to eat but a few berries they found
growing on the ground. And at last they were so tired that their legs
refused to carry them any longer, so they lay down under a tree and fell
fast asleep.

On the third morning after they had left their father's house they set
about their wandering again, but only got deeper and deeper into the
wood, and now they felt that if help did not come to them soon they must
perish. At midday they saw a beautiful little snow-white bird sitting on
a branch, which sang so sweetly that they stopped still and listened to
it. And when its song was finished it flapped its wings and flew on in
front of them. They followed it and came to a little house, on the roof
of which it perched; and when they came quite near they saw that the
cottage was made of bread and roofed with cakes, while the window was
made of transparent sugar. "Now we'll set to," said Hansel, "and have a
regular blow-out.(1) I'll eat a bit of the roof, and you, Grettel,
can eat some of the window, which you'll find a sweet morsel." Hansel
stretched up his hand and broke off a little bit of the roof to see what
it was like, and Grettel went to the casement and began to nibble at it.
Thereupon a shrill voice called out from the room inside:

  "Nibble, nibble, little mouse,
  Who's nibbling my house?"

The children answered:

  "Tis Heaven's own child,
  The tempest wild,"

and went on eating, without putting themselves about. Hansel, who
thoroughly appreciated the roof, tore down a big bit of it, while
Grettel pushed out a whole round window-pane, and sat down the better
to enjoy it. Suddenly the door opened, and an ancient dame leaning on
a staff hobbled out. Hansel and Grettel were so terrified that they let
what they had in their hands fall. But the old woman shook her head and
said: "Oh, ho! you dear children, who led you here? Just come in and
stay with me, no ill shall befall you." She took them both by the hand
and let them into the house, and laid a most sumptuous dinner before
them--milk and sugared pancakes, with apples and nuts. After they had
finished, two beautiful little white beds were prepared for them, and
when Hansel and Grettel lay down in them they felt as if they had got
into heaven.


(1) He was a vulgar boy!


The old woman had appeared to be most friendly, but she was really an
old witch who had waylaid the children, and had only built the little
bread house in order to lure them in. When anyone came into her power
she killed, cooked, and ate him, and held a regular feast-day for the
occasion. Now witches have red eyes, and cannot see far, but, like
beasts, they have a keen sense of smell, and know when human beings pass
by. When Hansel and Grettel fell into her hands she laughed maliciously,
and said jeeringly: "I've got them now; they sha'n't escape me." Early
in the morning, before the children were awake, she rose up, and when
she saw them both sleeping so peacefully, with their round rosy cheeks,
she muttered to herself: "That'll be a dainty bite." Then she seized
Hansel with her bony hand and carried him into a little stable, and
barred the door on him; he might scream as much as he liked, it did him
no good. Then she went to Grettel, shook her till she awoke, and
cried: "Get up, you lazy-bones, fetch water and cook something for your
brother. When he's fat I'll eat him up." Grettel began to cry bitterly,
but it was of no use; she had to do what the wicked witch bade her.

So the best food was cooked for poor Hansel, but Grettel got nothing but
crab-shells. Every morning the old woman hobbled out to the stable and
cried: "Hansel, put out your finger, that I may feel if you are getting
fat." But Hansel always stretched out a bone, and the old dame, whose
eyes were dim, couldn't see it, and thinking always it was Hansel's
finger, wondered why he fattened so slowly. When four weeks had passed
and Hansel still remained thin, she lost patience and determined to wait
no longer. "Hi, Grettel," she called to the girl, "be quick and get some
water. Hansel may be fat or thin, I'm going to kill him to-morrow and
cook him." Oh! how the poor little sister sobbed as she carried the
water, and how the tears rolled down her cheeks! "Kind heaven help us
now!" she cried; "if only the wild beasts in the wood had eaten us, then
at least we should have died together." "Just hold your peace," said the
old hag; "it won't help you."

Early in the morning Grettel had to go out and hang up the kettle full
of water, and light the fire. "First we'll bake," said the old dame;
"I've heated the oven already and kneaded the dough." She pushed Grettel
out to the oven, from which fiery flames were already issuing. "Creep
in," said the witch, "and see if it's properly heated, so that we can
shove in the bread." For when she had got Grettel in she meant to close
the oven and let the girl bake, that she might eat her up too. But
Grettel perceived her intention, and said: "I don't know how I'm to do
it; how do I get in?" "You silly goose!" said the hag, "the opening is
big enough; see, I could get in myself," and she crawled toward it, and
poked her head into the oven. Then Grettel gave her a shove that sent
her right in, shut the iron door, and drew the bolt. Gracious! how she
yelled, it was quite horrible; but Grettel fled, and the wretched old
woman was left to perish miserably.

Grettel flew straight to Hansel, opened the little stable-door, and
cried: "Hansel, we are free; the old witch is dead." Then Hansel sprang
like a bird out of a cage when the door is opened. How they rejoiced,
and fell on each other's necks, and jumped for joy, and kissed one
another! And as they had no longer any cause for fear, they went in the
old hag's house, and here they found, in every corner of the room, boxes
with pearls and precious stones. "These are even better than pebbles,"
said Hansel, and crammed his pockets full of them; and Grettel said:
"I too will bring something home," and she filled her apron full. "But
now," said Hansel, "let's go and get well away from the witch's wood."
When they had wandered about for some hours they came to a big lake.
"We can't get over," said Hansel; "I see no bridge of any sort or kind."
"Yes, and there's no ferry-boat either," answered Grettel; "but look,
there swims a white duck; if I ask her she'll help us over," and she
called out:

  "Here are two children, mournful very,
  Seeing neither bridge nor ferry;
  Take us upon your white back,
  And row us over, quack, quack!"


The duck swam toward them, and Hansel got on her back and bade his
little sister sit beside him. "No," answered Grettel, "we should be too
heavy a load for the duck: she shall carry us across separately." The
good bird did this, and when they were landed safely on the other side,
and had gone for a while, the wood became more and more familiar to
them, and at length they saw their father's house in the distance. Then
they set off to run, and bounding into the room fell on their father's
neck. The man had not passed a happy hour since he left them in the
wood, but the woman had died. Grettel shook out her apron so that the
pearls and precious stones rolled about the room, and Hansel threw down
one handful after the other out of his pocket. Thus all their troubles
were ended, and they lived happily ever afterward.

My story is done. See! there runs a little mouse; anyone who catches it
may make himself a large fur cap out of it.(1)


(1) Grimm.




SNOW-WHITE AND ROSE-RED


A poor widow once lived in a little cottage with a garden in front of
it, in which grew two rose trees, one bearing white roses and the other
red. She had two children, who were just like the two rose trees; one
was called Snow-white and the other Rose-red, and they were the sweetest
and best children in the world, always diligent and always cheerful; but
Snow-white was quieter and more gentle than Rose-red. Rose-red loved
to run about the fields and meadows, and to pick flowers and catch
butterflies; but Snow-white sat at home with her mother and helped her
in the household, or read aloud to her when there was no work to do. The
two children loved each other so dearly that they always walked about
hand in hand whenever they went out together, and when Snow-white said,
"We will never desert each other," Rose-red answered: "No, not as long
as we live"; and the mother added: "Whatever one gets she shall share
with the other." They often roamed about in the woods gathering berries
and no beast offered to hurt them; on the contrary, they came up to them
in the most confiding manner; the little hare would eat a cabbage leaf
from their hands, the deer grazed beside them, the stag would bound past
them merrily, and the birds remained on the branches and sang to them
with all their might.

No evil ever befell them; if they tarried late in the wood and night
overtook them, they lay down together on the moss and slept till
morning, and their mother knew they were quite safe, and never felt
anxious about them. Once, when they had slept all night in the wood and
had been wakened by the morning sun, they perceived a beautiful child
in a shining white robe sitting close to their resting-place. The figure
got up, looked at them kindly, but said nothing, and vanished into the
wood. And when they looked round about them they became aware that they
had slept quite close to a precipice, over which they would certainly
have fallen had they gone on a few steps further in the darkness. And
when they told their mother of their adventure, she said what they had
seen must have been the angel that guards good children.

Snow-white and Rose-red kept their mother's cottage so beautifully clean
and neat that it was a pleasure to go into it. In summer Rose-red looked
after the house, and every morning before her mother awoke she placed
a bunch of flowers before the bed, from each tree a rose. In winter
Snow-white lit the fire and put on the kettle, which was made of brass,
but so beautifully polished that it shone like gold. In the evening when
the snowflakes fell their mother said: "Snow-white, go and close the
shutters," and they drew round the fire, while the mother put on her
spectacles and read aloud from a big book and the two girls listened and
sat and span. Beside them on the ground lay a little lamb, and behind
them perched a little white dove with its head tucked under its wings.

One evening as they sat thus cosily together someone knocked at the door
as though he desired admittance. The mother said: "Rose-red, open
the door quickly; it must be some traveler seeking shelter." Rose-red
hastened to unbar the door, and thought she saw a poor man standing in
the darkness outside; but it was no such thing, only a bear, who poked
his thick black head through the door. Rose-red screamed aloud and
sprang back in terror, the lamb began to bleat, the dove flapped its
wings, and Snow-white ran and hid behind her mother's bed. But the bear
began to speak, and said: "Don't be afraid: I won't hurt you. I am half
frozen, and only wish to warm myself a little." "My poor bear," said the
mother, "lie down by the fire, only take care you don't burn your fur."
Then she called out: "Snow-white and Rose-red, come out; the bear will
do you no harm; he is a good, honest creature." So they both came out of
their hiding-places, and gradually the lamb and dove drew near too, and
they all forgot their fear. The bear asked the children to beat the snow
a little out of his fur, and they fetched a brush and scrubbed him till
he was dry. Then the beast stretched himself in front of the fire, and
growled quite happily and comfortably. The children soon grew quite at
their ease with him, and led their helpless guest a fearful life. They
tugged his fur with their hands, put their small feet on his back, and
rolled him about here and there, or took a hazel wand and beat him
with it; and if he growled they only laughed. The bear submitted to
everything with the best possible good-nature, only when they went too
far he cried: "Oh! children, spare my life!

  "Snow-white and Rose-red,
  Don't beat your lover dead."

When it was time to retire for the night, and the others went to bed,
the mother said to the bear: "You can lie there on the hearth, in
heaven's name; it will be shelter for you from the cold and wet." As
soon as day dawned the children led him out, and he trotted over the
snow into the wood. From this time on the bear came every evening at
the same hour, and lay down by the hearth and let the children play what
pranks they liked with him; and they got so accustomed to him that the
door was never shut till their black friend had made his appearance.

When spring came, and all outside was green, the bear said one morning
to Snow-white: "Now I must go away, and not return again the whole
summer." "Where are you going to, dear bear?" asked Snow-white. "I
must go to the wood and protect my treasure from the wicked dwarfs.
In winter, when the earth is frozen hard, they are obliged to remain
underground, for they can't work their way through; but now, when the
sun has thawed and warmed the ground, they break through and come up
above to spy the land and steal what they can; what once falls into
their hands and into their caves is not easily brought back to light."
Snow-white was quite sad over their friend's departure, and when she
unbarred the door for him, the bear, stepping out, caught a piece of
his fur in the door-knocker, and Snow-white thought she caught sight of
glittering gold beneath it, but she couldn't be certain of it; and the
bear ran hastily away, and soon disappeared behind the trees.

A short time after this the mother sent the children into the wood to
collect fagots. They came in their wanderings upon a big tree which lay
felled on the ground, and on the trunk among the long grass they
noticed something jumping up and down, but what it was they couldn't
distinguish. When they approached nearer they perceived a dwarf with a
wizened face and a beard a yard long. The end of the beard was jammed
into a cleft of the tree, and the little man sprang about like a dog
on a chain, and didn't seem to know what he was to do. He glared at the
girls with his fiery red eyes, and screamed out: "What are you standing
there for? Can't you come and help me?" "What were you doing, little
man?" asked Rose-red. "You stupid, inquisitive goose!" replied the
dwarf; "I wanted to split the tree, in order to get little chips of
wood for our kitchen fire; those thick logs that serve to make fires for
coarse, greedy people like yourselves quite burn up all the little food
we need. I had successfully driven in the wedge, and all was going well,
but the cursed wood was so slippery that it suddenly sprang out, and the
tree closed up so rapidly that I had no time to take my beautiful white
beard out, so here I am stuck fast, and I can't get away; and you silly,
smooth-faced, milk-and-water girls just stand and laugh! Ugh! what
wretches you are!"

The children did all in their power, but they couldn't get the beard
out; it was wedged in far too firmly. "I will run and fetch somebody,"
said Rose-red. "Crazy blockheads!" snapped the dwarf; "what's the good
of calling anyone else? You're already two too many for me. Does
nothing better occur to you than that?" "Don't be so impatient," said
Snow-white, "I'll see you get help," and taking her scissors out of
her pocket she cut off the end of his beard. As soon as the dwarf felt
himself free he seized a bag full of gold which was hidden among the
roots of the tree, lifted it up, and muttered aloud: "Curse these rude
wretches, cutting off a piece of my splendid beard!" With these words he
swung the bag over his back, and disappeared without as much as looking
at the children again.

Shortly after this Snow-white and Rose-red went out to get a dish of
fish. As they approached the stream they saw something which looked like
an enormous grasshopper springing toward the water as if it were going
to jump in. They ran forward and recognized their old friend the dwarf.
"Where are you going to?" asked Rose-red; "you're surely not going to
jump into the water?" "I'm not such a fool," screamed the dwarf. "Don't
you see that cursed fish is trying to drag me in?" The little man
had been sitting on the bank fishing, when unfortunately the wind had
entangled his beard in the line; and when immediately afterward a big
fish bit, the feeble little creature had no strength to pull it out; the
fish had the upper fin, and dragged the dwarf toward him. He clung on
with all his might to every rush and blade of grass, but it didn't help
him much; he had to follow every movement of the fish, and was in great
danger of being drawn into the water. The girls came up just at the
right moment, held him firm, and did all they could to disentangle his
beard from the line; but in vain, beard and line were in a hopeless
muddle. Nothing remained but to produce the scissors and cut the beard,
by which a small part of it was sacrificed.

When the dwarf perceived what they were about he yelled to them: "Do
you call that manners, you toad-stools! to disfigure a fellow's face? It
wasn't enough that you shortened my beard before, but you must now
needs cut off the best bit of it. I can't appear like this before my own
people. I wish you'd been in Jericho first." Then he fetched a sack of
pearls that lay among the rushes, and without saying another word he
dragged it away and disappeared behind a stone.

It happened that soon after this the mother sent the two girls to the
town to buy needles, thread, laces, and ribbons. Their road led over a
heath where huge boulders of rock lay scattered here and there. While
trudging along they saw a big bird hovering in the air, circling slowly
above them, but always descending lower, till at last it settled on
a rock not far from them. Immediately afterward they heard a sharp,
piercing cry. They ran forward, and saw with horror that the eagle had
pounced on their old friend the dwarf, and was about to carry him off.
The tender-hearted children seized hold of the little man, and struggled
so long with the bird that at last he let go his prey. When the dwarf
had recovered from the first shock he screamed in his screeching voice:
"Couldn't you have treated me more carefully? You have torn my thin
little coat all to shreds, useless, awkward hussies that you are!" Then
he took a bag of precious stones and vanished under the rocks into his
cave. The girls were accustomed to his ingratitude, and went on their
way and did their business in town. On their way home, as they were
again passing the heath, they surprised the dwarf pouring out his
precious stones on an open space, for he had thought no one would pass
by at so late an hour. The evening sun shone on the glittering stones,
and they glanced and gleamed so beautifully that the children stood
still and gazed on them. "What are you standing there gaping for?"
screamed the dwarf, and his ashen-gray face became scarlet with rage.
He was about to go off with these angry words when a sudden growl was
heard, and a black bear trotted out of the wood. The dwarf jumped up in
great fright, but he hadn't time to reach his place of retreat, for the
bear was already close to him. Then he cried in terror: "Dear Mr.
Bear, spare me! I'll give you all my treasure. Look at those beautiful
precious stones lying there. Spare my life! what pleasure would you get
from a poor feeble little fellow like me? You won't feel me between your
teeth. There, lay hold of these two wicked girls, they will be a tender
morsel for you, as fat as young quails; eat them up, for heaven's sake."
But the bear, paying no attention to his words, gave the evil little
creature one blow with his paw, and he never moved again.

The girls had run away, but the bear called after them: "Snow-white
and Rose-red, don't be afraid; wait, and I'll come with you." Then they
recognized his voice and stood still, and when the bear was quite close
to them his skin suddenly fell off, and a beautiful man stood beside
them, all dressed in gold. "I am a king's son," he said, "and have been
doomed by that unholy little dwarf, who had stolen my treasure, to roam
about the woods as a wild bear till his death should set me free. Now he
has got his well-merited punishment."

Snow-white married him, and Rose-red his brother, and they divided the
great treasure the dwarf had collected in his cave between them. The
old mother lived for many years peacefully with her children; and she
carried the two rose trees with her, and they stood in front of her
window, and every year they bore the finest red and white roses.(1)


(1) Grimm.




THE GOOSE-GIRL


Once upon a time an old queen, whose husband had been dead for many
years, had a beautiful daughter. When she grew up she was betrothed to
a prince who lived a great way off. Now, when the time drew near for her
to be married and to depart into a foreign kingdom, her old mother gave
her much costly baggage, and many ornaments, gold and silver, trinkets
and knicknacks, and, in fact, everything that belonged to a royal
trousseau, for she loved her daughter very dearly. She gave her a
waiting-maid also, who was to ride with her and hand her over to the
bridegroom, and she provided each of them with a horse for the journey.
Now the Princess's horse was called Falada, and could speak.

When the hour for departure drew near the old mother went to her
bedroom, and taking a small knife she cut her fingers till they bled;
then she held a white rag under them, and letting three drops of blood
fall into it, she gave it to her daughter, and said: "Dear child, take
great care of this rag: it may be of use to you on the journey."

So they took a sad farewell of each other, and the Princess stuck the
rag in front of her dress, mounted her horse, and set forth on the
journey to her bridegroom's kingdom. After they had ridden for about
an hour the Princess began to feel very thirsty, and said to her
waiting-maid: "Pray get down and fetch me some water in my golden cup
out of yonder stream: I would like a drink." "If you're thirsty," said
the maid, "dismount yourself, and lie down by the water and drink; I
don't mean to be your servant any longer." The Princess was so thirsty
that she got down, bent over the stream, and drank, for she wasn't
allowed to drink out of the golden goblet. As she drank she murmured:
"Oh! heaven, what am I to do?" and the three drops of blood replied:

  "If your mother only knew,
  Her heart would surely break in two."

But the Princess was meek, and said nothing about her maid's rude
behavior, and quietly mounted her horse again. They rode on their
way for several miles, but the day was hot, and the sun's rays smote
fiercely on them, so that the Princess was soon overcome by thirst
again. And as they passed a brook she called once more to her
waiting-maid: "Pray get down and give me a drink from my golden
cup," for she had long ago forgotten her maid's rude words. But the
waiting-maid replied, more haughtily even than before: "If you want a
drink, you can dismount and get it; I don't mean to be your servant."
Then the Princess was compelled by her thirst to get down, and bending
over the flowing water she cried and said: "Oh! heaven, what am I to
do?" and the three drops of blood replied:

  "If your mother only knew,
  Her heart would surely break in two."

And as she drank thus, and leaned right over the water, the rag
containing the three drops of blood fell from her bosom and floated down
the stream, and she in her anxiety never even noticed her loss. But the
waiting-maid had observed it with delight, as she knew it gave her power
over the bride, for in losing the drops of blood the Princess had become
weak and powerless. When she wished to get on her horse Falada again,
the waiting-maid called out: "I mean to ride Falada: you must mount
my beast"; and this too she had to submit to. Then the waiting-maid
commanded her harshly to take off her royal robes, and to put on her
common ones, and finally she made her swear by heaven not to say a word
about the matter when they reached the palace; and if she hadn't taken
this oath she would have been killed on the spot. But Falada observed
everything, and laid it all to heart.

The waiting-maid now mounted Falada, and the real bride the worse horse,
and so they continued their journey till at length they arrived at the
palace yard. There was great rejoicing over the arrival, and the Prince
sprang forward to meet them, and taking the waiting-maid for his bride,
he lifted her down from her horse and led her upstairs to the royal
chamber. In the meantime the real Princess was left standing below in
the courtyard. The old King, who was looking out of his window, beheld
her in this plight, and it struck him how sweet and gentle, even
beautiful, she looked. He went at once to the royal chamber, and asked
the bride who it was she had brought with her and had left thus standing
in the court below. "Oh!" replied the bride, "I brought her with me to
keep me company on the journey; give the girl something to do, that she
may not be idle." But the old King had no work for her, and couldn't
think of anything; so he said, "I've a small boy who looks after the
geese, she'd better help him." The youth's name was Curdken, and the
real bride was made to assist him in herding geese.

Soon after this the false bride said to the Prince: "Dearest husband,
I pray you grant me a favor." He answered: "That I will." "Then let the
slaughterer cut off the head of the horse I rode here upon, because it
behaved very badly on the journey." But the truth was she was afraid
lest the horse should speak and tell how she had treated the Princess.
She carried her point, and the faithful Falada was doomed to die.
When the news came to the ears of the real Princess she went to the
slaughterer, and secretly promised him a piece of gold if he would do
something for her. There was in the town a large dark gate, through
which she had to pass night and morning with the geese; would he "kindly
hang up Falada's head there, that she might see it once again?" The
slaughterer said he would do as she desired, chopped off the head, and
nailed it firmly over the gateway.

Early next morning, as she and Curdken were driving their flock through
the gate, she said as she passed under:


  "Oh! Falada, 'tis you hang there";

and the head replied:

  "'Tis you; pass under, Princess fair:
  If your mother only knew,
  Her heart would surely break in two."

Then she left the tower and drove the geese into a field. And when they
had reached the common where the geese fed she sat down and unloosed
her hair, which was of pure gold. Curdken loved to see it glitter in the
sun, and wanted much to pull some hair out. Then she spoke:

  "Wind, wind, gently sway,
  Blow Curdken's hat away;
  Let him chase o'er field and wold
  Till my locks of ruddy gold,
  Now astray and hanging down,
  Be combed and plaited in a crown."


Then a gust of wind blew Curdken's hat away, and he had to chase it over
hill and dale. When he returned from the pursuit she had finished
her combing and curling, and his chance of getting any hair was gone.
Curdken was very angry, and wouldn't speak to her. So they herded the
geese till evening and then went home.

The next morning, as they passed under the gate, the girl said:

  "Oh! Falada, 'tis you hang there;"

and the head replied:

  "'Tis you; pass under, Princess fair:
  If your mother only knew,
  Her heart would surely break in two."

Then she went on her way till she came to the common, where she sat down
and began to comb out her hair; then Curdken ran up to her and wanted to
grasp some of the hair from her head, but she called out hastily:

  "Wind, wind, gently sway,
  Blow Curdken's hat away;
  Let him chase o'er field and wold
  Till my locks of ruddy gold,
  Now astray and hanging down,
  Be combed and plaited in a crown."


Then a puff of wind came and blew Curdken's hat far away, so that he had
to run after it; and when he returned she had long finished putting
up her golden locks, and he couldn't get any hair; so they watched the
geese till it was dark.

But that evening when they got home Curdken went to the old King, and
said: "I refuse to herd geese any longer with that girl." "For what
reason?" asked the old King. "Because she does nothing but annoy me
all day long," replied Curdken; and he proceeded to relate all her
iniquities, and said: "Every morning as we drive the flock through the
dark gate she says to a horse's head that hangs on the wall:

     "'Oh! Falada, 'tis you hang there';

and the head replies:

     "''Tis you; pass under, Princess fair:
     If your mother only knew,
     Her heart would surely break in two.'"


And Curdken went on to tell what passed on the common where the geese
fed, and how he had always to chase his hat.

The old King bade him go and drive forth his flock as usual next day;
and when morning came he himself took up his position behind the dark
gate, and heard how the goose-girl greeted Falada. Then he followed her
through the field, and hid himself behind a bush on the common. He soon
saw with his own eyes how the goose-boy and the goose-girl looked after
the geese, and how after a time the maiden sat down and loosed her hair,
that glittered like gold, and repeated:

  "Wind, wind, gently sway,
  Blow Curdken's hat away;
  Let him chase o'er field and wold
  Till my locks of ruddy gold
  Now astray and hanging down,
  Be combed and plaited in a crown."

Then a gust of wind came and blew Curdken's hat away, so that he had to
fly over hill and dale after it, and the girl in the meantime quietly
combed and plaited her hair: all this the old King observed, and
returned to the palace without anyone having noticed him. In the evening
when the goose-girl came home he called her aside, and asked her why she
behaved as she did. "I may not tell you why; how dare I confide my woes
to anyone? for I swore not to by heaven, otherwise I should have lost my
life." The old King begged her to tell him all, and left her no peace,
but he could get nothing out of her. At last he said: "Well, if you
won't tell me, confide your trouble to the iron stove there," and he
went away. Then she crept to the stove, and began to sob and cry and to
pour out her poor little heart, and said: "Here I sit, deserted by all
the world, I who am a king's daughter, and a false waiting-maid has
forced me to take off my own clothes, and has taken my place with my
bridegroom, while I have to fulfill the lowly office of goose-girl.

  "If my mother only knew
  Her heart would surely break in two."


But the old King stood outside at the stove chimney, and listened to her
words. Then he entered the room again, and bidding her leave the stove,
he ordered royal apparel to be put on her, in which she looked amazingly
lovely. Then he summoned his son, and revealed to him that he had got
the false bride, who was nothing but a waiting-maid, while the real one,
in the guise of the ex-goose-girl, was standing at his side. The young
King rejoiced from his heart when he saw her beauty and learned how good
she was, and a great banquet was prepared, to which everyone was bidden.
The bridegroom sat at the head of the table, the Princess on one side of
him and the waiting-maid on the other; but she was so dazzled that she
did not recognize the Princess in her glittering garments. Now when they
had eaten and drunk, and were merry, the old King asked the waiting-maid
to solve a knotty point for him. "What," said he, "should be done to a
certain person who has deceived everyone?" and he proceeded to relate
the whole story, ending up with, "Now what sentence should be passed?"
Then the false bride answered: "She deserves to be put stark naked into
a barrel lined with sharp nails, which should be dragged by two white
horses up and down the street till she is dead."

"You are the person," said the King, "and you have passed sentence on
yourself; and even so it shall be done to you." And when the sentence
had been carried out the young King was married to his real bride, and
both reigned over the kingdom in peace and happiness.(1)


(1) Grimm.




TOADS AND DIAMONDS


THERE was once upon a time a widow who had two daughters. The eldest
was so much like her in the face and humor that whoever looked upon the
daughter saw the mother. They were both so disagreeable and so proud
that there was no living with them.

The youngest, who was the very picture of her father for courtesy and
sweetness of temper, was withal one of the most beautiful girls ever
seen. As people naturally love their own likeness, this mother even
doted on her eldest daughter and at the same time had a horrible
aversion for the youngest--she made her eat in the kitchen and work
continually.

Among other things, this poor child was forced twice a day to draw water
above a mile and a-half off the house, and bring home a pitcher full
of it. One day, as she was at this fountain, there came to her a poor
woman, who begged of her to let her drink.

"Oh! ay, with all my heart, Goody," said this pretty little girl;
and rinsing immediately the pitcher, she took up some water from the
clearest place of the fountain, and gave it to her, holding up the
pitcher all the while, that she might drink the easier.

The good woman, having drunk, said to her:

"You are so very pretty, my dear, so good and so mannerly, that I cannot
help giving you a gift." For this was a fairy, who had taken the form
of a poor country woman, to see how far the civility and good manners of
this pretty girl would go. "I will give you for a gift," continued the
Fairy, "that, at every word you speak, there shall come out of your
mouth either a flower or a jewel."

When this pretty girl came home her mother scolded her for staying so
long at the fountain.

"I beg your pardon, mamma," said the poor girl, "for not making more
haste."

And in speaking these words there came out of her mouth two roses, two
pearls, and two diamonds.

"What is it I see there?" said the mother, quite astonished. "I think I
see pearls and diamonds come out of the girl's mouth! How happens this,
child?"

This was the first time she had ever called her child.

The poor creature told her frankly all the matter, not without dropping
out infinite numbers of diamonds.

"In good faith," cried the mother, "I must send my child thither.
Come hither, Fanny; look what comes out of thy sister's mouth when she
speaks. Wouldst not thou be glad, my dear, to have the same gift given
thee? Thou hast nothing else to do but go and draw water out of the
fountain, and when a certain poor woman asks you to let her drink, to
give it to her very civilly."

"It would be a very fine sight indeed," said this ill-bred minx, "to see
me go draw water."

"You shall go, hussy!" said the mother; "and this minute."

So away she went, but grumbling all the way, taking with her the best
silver tankard in the house.

She was no sooner at the fountain than she saw coming out of the wood
a lady most gloriously dressed, who came up to her, and asked to drink.
This was, you must know, the very fairy who appeared to her sister,
but now had taken the air and dress of a princess, to see how far this
girl's rudeness would go.

"Am I come hither," said the proud, saucy one, "to serve you with water,
pray? I suppose the silver tankard was brought purely for your ladyship,
was it? However, you may drink out of it, if you have a fancy."

"You are not over and above mannerly," answered the Fairy, without
putting herself in a passion. "Well, then, since you have so little
breeding, and are so disobliging, I give you for a gift that at every
word you speak there shall come out of your mouth a snake or a toad."

So soon as her mother saw her coming she cried out:

"Well, daughter?"

"Well, mother?" answered the pert hussy, throwing out of her mouth two
vipers and two toads.

"Oh! mercy," cried the mother; "what is it I see? Oh! it is that wretch
her sister who has occasioned all this; but she shall pay for it"; and
immediately she ran to beat her. The poor child fled away from her, and
went to hide herself in the forest, not far from thence.

The King's son, then on his return from hunting, met her, and seeing her
so very pretty, asked her what she did there alone and why she cried.

"Alas! sir, my mamma has turned me out of doors."

The King's son, who saw five or six pearls and as many diamonds come out
of her mouth, desired her to tell him how that happened. She thereupon
told him the whole story; and so the King's son fell in love with
her, and, considering himself that such a gift was worth more than any
marriage portion, conducted her to the palace of the King his father,
and there married her.

As for the sister, she made herself so much hated that her own mother
turned her off; and the miserable wretch, having wandered about a good
while without finding anybody to take her in, went to a corner of the
wood, and there died.(1)


(1) Charles Perrault.




PRINCE DARLING


ONCE upon a time there lived a king who was so just and kind that his
subjects called him "the Good King." It happened one day, when he was
out hunting, that a little white rabbit, which his dogs were chasing,
sprang into his arms for shelter. The King stroked it gently, and said
to it:

"Well, bunny, as you have come to me for protection I will see that
nobody hurts you."

And he took it home to his palace and had it put in a pretty little
house, with all sorts of nice things to eat.

That night, when he was alone in his room, a beautiful lady suddenly
appeared before him; her long dress was as white as snow, and she had
a crown of white roses upon her head. The good King was very much
surprised to see her, for he knew his door had been tightly shut, and he
could not think how she had got in. But she said to him:

"I am the Fairy Truth. I was passing through the wood when you were out
hunting, and I wished to find out if you were really good, as everybody
said you were, so I took the shape of a little rabbit and came to your
arms for shelter, for I know that those who are merciful to animals will
be still kinder to their fellow-men. If you had refused to help me
I should have been certain that you were wicked. I thank you for the
kindness you have shown me, which has made me your friend for ever. You
have only to ask me for anything you want and I promise that I will give
it to you."

"Madam," said the good King, "since you are a fairy you no doubt know
all my wishes. I have but one son whom I love very dearly, that is why
he is called Prince Darling. If you are really good enough to wish to do
me a favor, I beg that you will become his friend."

"With all my heart," answered the Fairy. "I can make your son the
handsomest prince in the world, or the richest, or the most powerful;
choose whichever you like for him."

"I do not ask either of these things for my son," replied the good
King; "but if you will make him the best of princes, I shall indeed be
grateful to you. What good would it do him to be rich, or handsome, or
to possess all the kingdoms of the world if he were wicked? You
know well he would still be unhappy. Only a good man can be really
contented."

"You are quite right," answered the Fairy; "but it is not in my power to
make Prince Darling a good man unless he will help me; he must himself
try hard to become good, I can only promise to give him good advice, to
scold him for his faults, and to punish him if he will not correct and
punish himself."

The good King was quite satisfied with this promise; and very soon
afterward he died.

Prince Darling was very sorry, for he loved his father with all his
heart, and he would willingly have given all his kingdoms and all his
treasures of gold and silver if they could have kept the good King with
him.

Two days afterward, when the Prince had gone to bed, the Fairy suddenly
appeared to him and said:

"I promised your father that I would be your friend, and to keep my word
I have come to bring you a present." At the same time she put a little
gold ring upon his finger.

"Take great care of this ring," she said: "it is more precious than
diamonds; every time you do a bad deed it will prick your finger, but
if, in spite of its pricking, you go on in your own evil way, you will
lose my friendship, and I shall become your enemy."

So saying, the Fairy disappeared, leaving Prince Darling very much
astonished.

For some time he behaved so well that the ring never pricked him, and
that made him so contented that his subjects called him Prince Darling
the Happy.

One day, however, he went out hunting, but could get no sport, which
put him in a very bad temper; it seemed to him as he rode along that his
ring was pressing into his finger, but as it did not prick him he did
not heed it. When he got home and went to his own room, his little dog
Bibi ran to meet him, jumping round him with pleasure. "Get away!" said
the Prince, quite gruffly. "I don't want you, you are in the way."

The poor little dog, who didn't understand this at all, pulled at his
coat to make him at least look at her, and this made Prince Darling so
cross that he gave her quite a hard kick.

Instantly his ring pricked him sharply, as if it had been a pin. He was
very much surprised, and sat down in a corner of his room feeling quite
ashamed of himself.

"I believe the Fairy is laughing at me," he thought. "Surely I can have
done no great wrong in just kicking a tiresome animal! What is the good
of my being ruler of a great kingdom if I am not even allowed to beat my
own dog?"

"I am not making fun of you," said a voice, answering Prince Darling's
thoughts. "You have committed three faults. First of all, you were out
of temper because you could not have what you wanted, and you thought
all men and animals were only made to do your pleasure; then you were
really angry, which is very naughty indeed; and lastly, you were
cruel to a poor little animal who did not in the least deserve to be
ill-treated.

"I know you are far above a little dog, but if it were right and
allowable that great people should ill-treat all who are beneath them, I
might at this moment beat you, or kill you, for a fairy is greater than
a man. The advantage of possessing a great empire is not to be able to
do the evil that one desires, but to do all the good that one possibly
can."

The Prince saw how naughty he had been, and promised to try and do
better in future, but he did not keep his word. The fact was he had been
brought up by a foolish nurse, who had spoiled him when he was little.
If he wanted anything he only had to cry and fret and stamp his feet
and she would give him whatever he asked for, which had made him
self-willed; also she had told him from morning to night that he would
one day be a king, and that kings were very happy, because everyone was
bound to obey and respect them, and no one could prevent them from doing
just as they liked.

When the Prince grew old enough to understand, he soon learned that
there could be nothing worse than to be proud, obstinate, and conceited,
and he had really tried to cure himself of these defects, but by that
time all his faults had become habits; and a bad habit is very hard to
get rid of. Not that he was naturally of a bad disposition; he was truly
sorry when he had been naughty, and said:

"I am very unhappy to have to struggle against my anger and pride every
day; if I had been punished for them when I was little they would not be
such a trouble to me now."

His ring pricked him very often, and sometimes he left off what he was
doing at once; but at other times he would not attend to it. Strangely
enough, it gave him only a slight prick for a trifling fault, but when
he was really naughty it made his finger actually bleed. At last he got
tired of being constantly reminded, and wanted to be able to do as he
liked, so he threw his ring aside, and thought himself the happiest of
men to have got rid of its teasing pricks. He gave himself up to doing
every foolish thing that occurred to him, until he became quite wicked
and nobody could like him any longer.

One day, when the Prince was walking about, he saw a young girl who was
so very pretty that he made up his mind at once that he would marry her.
Her name was Celia, and she was as good as she was beautiful.

Prince Darling fancied that Celia would think herself only too happy if
he offered to make her a great queen, but she said fearlessly:

"Sire, I am only a shepherdess, and a poor girl, but, nevertheless, I
will not marry you."

"Do you dislike me?" asked the Prince, who was very much vexed at this
answer.

"No, my Prince," replied Celia; "I cannot help thinking you very
handsome; but what good would riches be to me, and all the grand dresses
and splendid carriages that you would give me, if the bad deeds which I
should see you do every day made me hate and despise you?"

The Prince was very angry at this speech, and commanded his officers to
make Celia a prisoner and carry her off to his palace. All day long the
remembrance of what she had said annoyed him, but as he loved her he
could not make up his mind to have her punished.

One of the Prince's favorite companions was his foster-brother, whom
he trusted entirely; but he was not at all a good man, and gave Prince
Darling very bad advice, and encouraged him in all his evil ways. When
he saw the Prince so downcast he asked what was the matter, and when
he explained that he could not bear Celia's bad opinion of him, and was
resolved to be a better man in order to please her, this evil adviser
said to him:

"You are very kind to trouble yourself about this little girl; if I were
you I would soon make her obey me. Remember that you are a king, and
that it would be laughable to see you trying to please a shepherdess,
who ought to be only too glad to be one of your slaves. Keep her in
prison, and feed her on bread and water for a little while, and then, if
she still says she will not marry you, have her head cut off, to teach
other people that you mean to be obeyed. Why, if you cannot make a girl
like that do as you wish, your subjects will soon forget that they are
only put into this world for our pleasure."

"But," said Prince Darling, "would it not be a shame if I had an
innocent girl put to death? For Celia has done nothing to deserve
punishment."

"If people will not do as you tell them they ought to suffer for it,"
answered his foster-brother; "but even if it were unjust, you had better
be accused of that by your subjects than that they should find out that
they may insult and thwart you as often as they please."

In saying this he was touching a weak point in his brother's character;
for the Prince's fear of losing any of his power made him at once
abandon his first idea of trying to be good, and resolve to try and
frighten the shepherdess into consenting to marry him.

His foster-brother, who wanted him to keep this resolution, invited
three young courtiers, as wicked as himself to sup with the Prince,
and they persuaded him to drink a great deal of wine, and continued to
excite his anger against Celia by telling him that she had laughed at
his love for her; until at last, in quite a furious rage, he rushed off
to find her, declaring that if she still refused to marry him she should
be sold as a slave the very next day.

But when he reached the room in which Celia had been locked up, he was
greatly surprised to find that she was not in it, though he had the key
in his own pocket all the time. His anger was terrible, and he vowed
vengeance against whoever had helped her to escape. His bad friends,
when they heard him, resolved to turn his wrath upon an old nobleman who
had formerly been his tutor; and who still dared sometimes to tell the
Prince of his faults, for he loved him as if he had been his own son. At
first Prince Darling had thanked him, but after a time he grew impatient
and thought it must be just mere love of fault-finding that made his old
tutor blame him when everyone else was praising and flattering him. So
he ordered him to retire from his Court, though he still, from time
to time, spoke of him as a worthy man whom he respected, even if he no
longer loved him. His unworthy friends feared that he might some day
take it into his head to recall his old tutor, so they thought they now
had a good opportunity of getting him banished for ever.

They reported to the Prince that Suliman, for that was the tutor's name,
had boasted of having helped Celia to escape, and they bribed three men
to say that Suliman himself had told them about it. The Prince, in great
anger, sent his foster-brother with a number of soldiers to bring his
tutor before him, in chains, like a criminal. After giving this order he
went to his own room, but he had scarcely got into it when there was
a clap of thunder which made the ground shake, and the Fairy Truth
appeared suddenly before him.

"I promised your father," said she sternly, "to give you good advice,
and to punish you if you refused to follow it. You have despised my
counsel, and have gone your own evil way until you are only outwardly a
man; really you are a monster--the horror of everyone who knows you. It
is time that I should fulfil my promise, and begin your punishment. I
condemn you to resemble the animals whose ways you have imitated. You
have made yourself like the lion by your anger, and like the wolf by
your greediness. Like a snake, you have ungratefully turned upon one who
was a second father to you; your churlishness has made you like a bull.
Therefore, in your new form, take the appearance of all these animals."

The Fairy had scarcely finished speaking when Prince Darling saw to his
horror that her words were fulfilled. He had a lion's head, a bull's
horns, a wolf's feet, and a snake's body. At the same instant he found
himself in a great forest, beside a clear lake, in which he could see
plainly the horrible creature he had become, and a voice said to him:

"Look carefully at the state to which your wickedness has brought you;
believe me, your soul is a thousand times more hideous than your body."

Prince Darling recognized the voice of the Fairy Truth and turned in
a fury to catch her and eat her up if he possibly could; but he saw no
one, and the same voice went on:

"I laugh at your powerlessness and anger, and I intend to punish your
pride by letting you fall into the hands of your own subjects."

The Prince began to think that the best thing he could do would be to
get as far away from the lake as he could, then at least he would not
be continually reminded of his terrible ugliness. So he ran toward the
wood, but before he had gone many yards he fell into a deep pit which
had been made to trap bears, and the hunters, who were hiding in a tree,
leaped down, and secured him with several chains, and led him into the
chief city of his own kingdom.

On the way, instead of recognizing that his own faults had brought this
punishment upon him, he accused the Fairy of being the cause of all his
misfortunes, and bit and tore at his chains furiously.

As they approached the town he saw that some great rejoicing was being
held, and when the hunters asked what had happened they were told that
the Prince, whose only pleasure it was to torment his people, had been
found in his room, killed by a thunder-bolt (for that was what was
supposed to have become of him). Four of his courtiers, those who had
encouraged him in his wicked doings, had tried to seize the kingdom
and divide it between them, but the people, who knew it was their bad
counsels which had so changed the Prince, had cut off their heads, and
had offered the crown to Suliman, whom the Prince had left in prison.
This noble lord had just been crowned, and the deliverance of the
kingdom was the cause of the rejoicing "For," they said, "he is a good
and just man, and we shall once more enjoy peace and prosperity."

Prince Darling roared with anger when he heard this; but it was still
worse for him when he reached the great square before his own palace. He
saw Suliman seated upon a magnificent throne, and all the people crowded
round, wishing him a long life that he might undo all the mischief done
by his predecessor.

Presently Suliman made a sign with his hand that the people should be
silent, and said: "I have accepted the crown you have offered me, but
only that I may keep it for Prince Darling, who is not dead as you
suppose; the Fairy has assured me that there is still hope that you may
some day see him again, good and virtuous as he was when he first came
to the throne. Alas!" he continued, "he was led away by flatterers.
I knew his heart, and am certain that if it had not been for the bad
influence of those who surrounded him he would have been a good king and
a father to his people. We may hate his faults, but let us pity him and
hope for his restoration. As for me, I would die gladly if that could
bring back our Prince to reign justly and worthily once more."

These words went to Prince Darling's heart; he realized the true
affection and faithfulness of his old tutor, and for the first time
reproached himself for all his evil deeds; at the same instant he felt
all his anger melting away, and he began quickly to think over his
past life, and to admit that his punishment was not more than he had
deserved. He left off tearing at the iron bars of the cage in which he
was shut up, and became as gentle as a lamb.

The hunters who had caught him took him to a great menagerie, where he
was chained up among all the other wild beasts, and he determined to
show his sorrow for his past bad behavior by being gentle and obedient
to the man who had to take care of him. Unfortunately, this man was very
rough and unkind, and though the poor monster was quite quiet, he often
beat him without rhyme or reason when he happened to be in a bad temper.
One day when this keeper was asleep a tiger broke its chain, and flew at
him to eat him up. Prince Darling, who saw what was going on, at
first felt quite pleased to think that he should be delivered from his
persecutor, but soon thought better of it and wished that he were free.

"I would return good for evil," he said to himself, "and save the
unhappy man's life." He had hardly wished this when his iron cage flew
open, and he rushed to the side of the keeper, who was awake and was
defending himself against the tiger. When he saw the monster had got out
he gave himself up for lost, but his fear was soon changed into joy, for
the kind monster threw itself upon the tiger and very soon killed it,
and then came and crouched at the feet of the man it had saved.

Overcome with gratitude, the keeper stooped to caress the strange
creature which had done him such a great service; but suddenly a voice
said in his ear:

"A good action should never go unrewarded," and at the same instant the
monster disappeared, and he saw at his feet only a pretty little dog!

Prince Darling, delighted by the change, frisked about the keeper,
showing his joy in every way he could, and the man, taking him up in his
arms, carried him to the King, to whom he told the whole story.

The Queen said she would like to have this wonderful little dog, and
the Prince would have been very happy in his new home if he could have
forgotten that he was a man and a king. The Queen petted and took
care of him, but she was so afraid that he would get too fat that she
consulted the court physician, who said that he was to be fed only upon
bread, and was not to have much even of that. So poor Prince Darling was
terribly hungry all day long, but he was very patient about it.

One day, when they gave him his little loaf for breakfast, he thought
he would like to eat it out in the garden; so he took it up in his mouth
and trotted away toward a brook that he knew of a long way from the
palace. But he was surprised to find that the brook was gone, and where
it had been stood a great house that seemed to be built of gold and
precious stones. Numbers of people splendidly dressed were going into
it, and sounds of music and dancing and feasting could be heard from the
windows.

But what seemed very strange was that those people who came out of the
house were pale and thin, and their clothes were torn, and hanging in
rags about them. Some fell down dead as they came out before they had
time to get away; others crawled farther with great difficulty; while
others again lay on the ground, fainting with hunger, and begged a
morsel of bread from those who were going into the house, but they would
not so much as look at the poor creatures.

Prince Darling went up to a young girl who was trying to eat a few
blades of grass, she was so hungry. Touched with compassion, he said to
himself:

"I am very hungry, but I shall not die of starvation before I get my
dinner; if I give my breakfast to this poor creature perhaps I may save
her life."

So he laid his piece of bread in the girl's hand, and saw her eat it up
eagerly.

She soon seemed to be quite well again, and the Prince, delighted to
have been able to help her, was thinking of going home to the palace,
when he heard a great outcry, and, turning round, saw Celia, who was
being carried against her will into the great house.

For the first time the Prince regretted that he was no longer the
monster, then he would have been able to rescue Celia; now he could only
bark feebly at the people who were carrying her off, and try to follow
them, but they chased and kicked him away.

He determined not to quit the place till he knew what had become of
Celia, and blamed himself for what had befallen her.

"Alas!" he said to himself, "I am furious with the people who are
carrying Celia off, but isn't that exactly what I did myself, and if I
had not been prevented did I not intend to be still more cruel to her?"

Here he was interrupted by a noise above his head--someone was opening
a window, and he saw with delight that it was Celia herself, who came
forward and threw out a plate of most delicious-looking food, then the
window was shut again, and Prince Darling, who had not had anything to
eat all day, thought he might as well take the opportunity of getting
something. He ran forward to begin, but the young girl to whom he
had given his bread gave a cry of terror and took him up in her arms,
saying:

"Don't touch it, my poor little dog--that house is the palace of
pleasure, and everything that comes out of it is poisoned!"

At the same moment a voice said:

"You see a good action always brings its reward," and the Prince found
himself changed into a beautiful white dove. He remembered that white
was the favorite color of the Fairy Truth, and began to hope that he
might at last win back her favor. But just now his first care was for
Celia, and rising into the air he flew round and round the house, until
he saw an open window; but he searched through every room in vain. No
trace of Celia was to be seen, and the Prince, in despair, determined
to search through the world till he found her. He flew on and on for
several days, till he came to a great desert, where he saw a cavern,
and, to his delight, there sat Celia, sharing the simple breakfast of an
old hermit.

Overjoyed to have found her, Prince Darling perched upon her shoulder,
trying to express by his caresses how glad he was to see her again,
and Celia, surprised and delighted by the tameness of this pretty white
dove, stroked it softly, and said, though she never thought of its
understanding her:

"I accept the gift that you make me of yourself, and I will love you
always."

"Take care what you are saying, Celia," said the old hermit; "are you
prepared to keep that promise?"

"Indeed, I hope so, my sweet shepherdess," cried the Prince, who was
at that moment restored to his natural shape. "You promised to love me
always; tell me that you really mean what you said, or I shall have to
ask the Fairy to give me back the form of the dove which pleased you so
much."

"You need not be afraid that she will change her mind," said the Fairy,
throwing off the hermit's robe in which she had been disguised and
appearing before them.

"Celia has loved you ever since she first saw you, only she would not
tell you while you were so obstinate and naughty. Now you have repented
and mean to be good you deserve to be happy, and so she may love you as
much as she likes."

Celia and Prince Darling threw themselves at the Fairy's feet, and
the Prince was never tired of thanking her for her kindness. Celia
was delighted to hear how sorry he was for all his past follies and
misdeeds, and promised to love him as long as she lived.

"Rise, my children," said the Fairy, "and I will transport you to the
palace, and Prince Darling shall have back again the crown he forfeited
by his bad behavior."

While she was speaking, they found themselves in Suliman's hall, and his
delight was great at seeing his dear master once more. He gave up the
throne joyfully to the Prince, and remained always the most faithful of
his subjects.

Celia and Prince Darling reigned for many years, but he was so
determined to govern worthily and to do his duty that his ring, which he
took to wearing again, never once pricked him severely.(1)


(1) Cabinet des Fees.




BLUE BEARD


There was a man who had fine houses, both in town and country, a deal
of silver and gold plate, embroidered furniture, and coaches gilded all
over with gold. But this man was so unlucky as to have a blue beard,
which made him so frightfully ugly that all the women and girls ran away
from him.

One of his neighbors, a lady of quality, had two daughters who were
perfect beauties. He desired of her one of them in marriage, leaving to
her choice which of the two she would bestow on him. They would neither
of them have him, and sent him backward and forward from one another,
not being able to bear the thoughts of marrying a man who had a blue
beard, and what besides gave them disgust and aversion was his having
already been married to several wives, and nobody ever knew what became
of them.

Blue Beard, to engage their affection, took them, with the lady their
mother and three or four ladies of their acquaintance, with other young
people of the neighborhood, to one of his country seats, where they
stayed a whole week.

There was nothing then to be seen but parties of pleasure, hunting,
fishing, dancing, mirth, and feasting. Nobody went to bed, but all
passed the night in rallying and joking with each other. In short,
everything succeeded so well that the youngest daughter began to think
the master of the house not to have a beard so very blue, and that he
was a mighty civil gentleman.

As soon as they returned home, the marriage was concluded. About a
month afterward, Blue Beard told his wife that he was obliged to take
a country journey for six weeks at least, about affairs of very great
consequence, desiring her to divert herself in his absence, to send for
her friends and acquaintances, to carry them into the country, if she
pleased, and to make good cheer wherever she was.

"Here," said he, "are the keys of the two great wardrobes, wherein I
have my best furniture; these are of my silver and gold plate, which is
not every day in use; these open my strong boxes, which hold my money,
both gold and silver; these my caskets of jewels; and this is the
master-key to all my apartments. But for this little one here, it is the
key of the closet at the end of the great gallery on the ground floor.
Open them all; go into all and every one of them, except that little
closet, which I forbid you, and forbid it in such a manner that, if you
happen to open it, there's nothing but what you may expect from my just
anger and resentment."

She promised to observe, very exactly, whatever he had ordered; when
he, after having embraced her, got into his coach and proceeded on his
journey.

Her neighbors and good friends did not stay to be sent for by the
new married lady, so great was their impatience to see all the rich
furniture of her house, not daring to come while her husband was there,
because of his blue beard, which frightened them. They ran through all
the rooms, closets, and wardrobes, which were all so fine and rich that
they seemed to surpass one another.

After that they went up into the two great rooms, where was the best
and richest furniture; they could not sufficiently admire the number
and beauty of the tapestry, beds, couches, cabinets, stands, tables, and
looking-glasses, in which you might see yourself from head to foot; some
of them were framed with glass, others with silver, plain and gilded,
the finest and most magnificent ever were seen.

They ceased not to extol and envy the happiness of their friend, who in
the meantime in no way diverted herself in looking upon all these rich
things, because of the impatience she had to go and open the closet on
the ground floor. She was so much pressed by her curiosity that, without
considering that it was very uncivil to leave her company, she went
down a little back staircase, and with such excessive haste that she had
twice or thrice like to have broken her neck.

Coming to the closet-door, she made a stop for some time, thinking upon
her husband's orders, and considering what unhappiness might attend her
if she was disobedient; but the temptation was so strong she could not
overcome it. She then took the little key, and opened it, trembling, but
could not at first see anything plainly, because the windows were shut.
After some moments she began to perceive that the floor was all covered
over with clotted blood, on which lay the bodies of several dead women,
ranged against the walls. (These were all the wives whom Blue Beard had
married and murdered, one after another.) She thought she should have
died for fear, and the key, which she pulled out of the lock, fell out
of her hand.

After having somewhat recovered her surprise, she took up the key,
locked the door, and went upstairs into her chamber to recover herself;
but she could not, she was so much frightened. Having observed that the
key of the closet was stained with blood, she tried two or three times
to wipe it off, but the blood would not come out; in vain did she wash
it, and even rub it with soap and sand; the blood still remained, for
the key was magical and she could never make it quite clean; when the
blood was gone off from one side, it came again on the other.

Blue Beard returned from his journey the same evening, and said he had
received letters upon the road, informing him that the affair he went
about was ended to his advantage. His wife did all she could to convince
him she was extremely glad of his speedy return.

Next morning he asked her for the keys, which she gave him, but with
such a trembling hand that he easily guessed what had happened.

"What!" said he, "is not the key of my closet among the rest?"

"I must certainly have left it above upon the table," said she.

"Fail not to bring it to me presently," said Blue Beard.

After several goings backward and forward she was forced to bring him
the key. Blue Beard, having very attentively considered it, said to his
wife,

"How comes this blood upon the key?"

"I do not know," cried the poor woman, paler than death.

"You do not know!" replied Blue Beard. "I very well know. You were
resolved to go into the closet, were you not? Mighty well, madam; you
shall go in, and take your place among the ladies you saw there."

Upon this she threw herself at her husband's feet, and begged his pardon
with all the signs of true repentance, vowing that she would never more
be disobedient. She would have melted a rock, so beautiful and sorrowful
was she; but Blue Beard had a heart harder than any rock!

"You must die, madam," said he, "and that presently."

"Since I must die," answered she (looking upon him with her eyes all
bathed in tears), "give me some little time to say my prayers."

"I give you," replied Blue Beard, "half a quarter of an hour, but not
one moment more."

When she was alone she called out to her sister, and said to her:

"Sister Anne" (for that was her name), "go up, I beg you, upon the top
of the tower, and look if my brothers are not coming over; they promised
me that they would come to-day, and if you see them, give them a sign to
make haste."

Her sister Anne went up upon the top of the tower, and the poor
afflicted wife cried out from time to time:

"Anne, sister Anne, do you see anyone coming?"

And sister Anne said:

"I see nothing but the sun, which makes a dust, and the grass, which
looks green."

In the meanwhile Blue Beard, holding a great sabre in his hand, cried
out as loud as he could bawl to his wife:

"Come down instantly, or I shall come up to you."

"One moment longer, if you please," said his wife, and then she cried
out very softly, "Anne, sister Anne, dost thou see anybody coming?"

And sister Anne answered:

"I see nothing but the sun, which makes a dust, and the grass, which is
green."

"Come down quickly," cried Blue Beard, "or I will come up to you."

"I am coming," answered his wife; and then she cried, "Anne, sister
Anne, dost thou not see anyone coming?"

"I see," replied sister Anne, "a great dust, which comes on this side
here."

"Are they my brothers?"

"Alas! no, my dear sister, I see a flock of sheep."

"Will you not come down?" cried Blue Beard

"One moment longer," said his wife, and then she cried out: "Anne,
sister Anne, dost thou see nobody coming?"

"I see," said she, "two horsemen, but they are yet a great way off."

"God be praised," replied the poor wife joyfully; "they are my brothers;
I will make them a sign, as well as I can, for them to make haste."

Then Blue Beard bawled out so loud that he made the whole house tremble.
The distressed wife came down, and threw herself at his feet, all in
tears, with her hair about her shoulders.

"This signifies nothing," says Blue Beard; "you must die"; then, taking
hold of her hair with one hand, and lifting up the sword with the other,
he was going to take off her head. The poor lady, turning about to him,
and looking at him with dying eyes, desired him to afford her one little
moment to recollect herself.

"No, no," said he, "recommend thyself to God," and was just ready to
strike...

At this very instant there was such a loud knocking at the gate that
Blue Beard made a sudden stop. The gate was opened, and presently
entered two horsemen, who, drawing their swords, ran directly to Blue
Beard. He knew them to be his wife's brothers, one a dragoon, the other
a musketeer, so that he ran away immediately to save himself; but the
two brothers pursued so close that they overtook him before he could get
to the steps of the porch, when they ran their swords through his body
and left him dead. The poor wife was almost as dead as her husband, and
had not strength enough to rise and welcome her brothers.

Blue Beard had no heirs, and so his wife became mistress of all his
estate. She made use of one part of it to marry her sister Anne to a
young gentleman who had loved her a long while; another part to buy
captains commissions for her brothers, and the rest to marry herself to
a very worthy gentleman, who made her forget the ill time she had passed
with Blue Beard.(1)


(1) Charles Perrault.




TRUSTY JOHN


Once upon a time there was an old king who was so ill that he thought to
himself, "I am most likely on my death-bed." Then he said, "Send Trusty
John to me." Now Trusty John was his favorite servant, and was so called
because all his life he had served him so faithfully. When he approached
the bed the King spake to him: "Most trusty John, I feel my end is
drawing near, and I could face it without a care were it not for my son.
He is still too young to decide everything for himself, and unless you
promise me to instruct him in all he should know, and to be to him as a
father, I shall not close my eyes in peace." Then Trusty John answered:
"I will never desert him, and will serve him faithfully, even though it
should cost me my life." Then the old King said: "Now I die comforted
and in peace"; and then he went on: "After my death you must show him
the whole castle, all the rooms and apartments and vaults, and all the
treasures that lie in them; but you must not show him the last room in
the long passage, where the picture of the Princess of the Golden Roof
is hidden. When he beholds that picture he will fall violently in love
with it and go off into a dead faint, and for her sake he will encounter
many dangers; you must guard him from this." And when Trusty John had
again given the King his hand upon it the old man became silent, laid
his head on the pillow, and died.

When the old King had been carried to his grave Trusty John told the
young King what he had promised his father on his death-bed, and added:
"And I shall assuredly keep my word, and shall be faithful to you as I
have been to him, even though it should cost me my life."

Now when the time of mourning was over, Trusty John said to him: "It
is time you should see your inheritance. I will show you your ancestral
castle." So he took him over everything, and let him see all the riches
and splendid apartments, only the one room where the picture was he
did not open. But the picture was placed so that if the door opened
you gazed straight upon it, and it was so beautifully painted that
you imagined it lived and moved, and that it was the most lovable and
beautiful thing in the whole world. But the young King noticed that
Trusty John always missed one door, and said: "Why do you never open
this one for me?" "There is something inside that would appall you," he
answered. But the King replied: "I have seen the whole castle, and shall
find out what is in there"; and with these words he approached the door
and wanted to force it open. But Trusty John held him back, and said: "I
promised your father before his death that you shouldn't see what that
room contains. It might bring both you and me to great grief." "Ah!
no," answered the young King; "if I don't get in, it will be my certain
destruction; I should have no peace night or day till I had seen what
was in the room with my own eyes. Now I don't budge from the spot till
you have opened the door."

Then Trusty John saw there was no way out of it, so with a heavy heart
and many sighs he took the key from the big bunch. When he had opened
the door he stepped in first, and thought to cover the likeness so that
the King might not perceive it; but it was hopeless: the King stood on
tiptoe and looked over his shoulder. And when he saw the picture of the
maid, so beautiful and glittering with gold and precious stones, he fell
swooning to the ground. Trusty John lifted him up, carried him to bed,
and thought sorrowfully: "The curse has come upon us; gracious heaven!
what will be the end of it all?" Then he poured wine down his throat
till he came to himself again. The first words he spoke were: "Oh! who
is the original of the beautiful picture?" "She is the Princess of the
Golden Roof," answered Trusty John. Then the King continued: "My love
for her is so great that if all the leaves on the trees had tongues they
could not express it; my very life depends on my winning her. You are my
most trusty John: you must stand by me."

The faithful servant pondered long how they were to set about the
matter, for it was said to be difficult even to get into the presence of
the Princess. At length he hit upon a plan, and spoke to the King: "All
the things she has about her--tables, chairs, dishes, goblets, bowls,
and all her household furniture--are made of gold. You have in
your treasure five tons of gold; let the goldsmiths of your kingdom
manufacture them into all manner of vases and vessels, into all sorts of
birds and game and wonderful beasts; that will please her. We shall
go to her with them and try our luck." The King summoned all his
goldsmiths, and they had to work hard day and night, till at length the
most magnificent things were completed. When a ship had been laden with
them the faithful John disguised himself as a merchant, and the King had
to do the same, so that they should be quite unrecognizable. And so
they crossed the seas and journeyed till they reached the town where the
Princess of the Golden Roof dwelt.

Trusty John made the King remain behind on the ship and await his
return. "Perhaps," he said, "I may bring the Princess back with me, so
see that everything is in order; let the gold ornaments be arranged and
the whole ship decorated." Then he took a few of the gold things in his
apron, went ashore, and proceeded straight to the palace. When he came
to the courtyard he found a beautiful maiden standing at the well,
drawing water with two golden pails. And as she was about to carry away
the glittering water she turned round and saw the stranger, and asked
him who he was. Then he replied: "I am a merchant," and opening his
apron, he let her peep in. "Oh! my," she cried; "what beautiful gold
wares!" she set down her pails, and examined one thing after the other.
Then she said: "The Princess must see this, she has such a fancy for
gold things that she will buy up all you have." She took him by the hand
and let him into the palace, for she was the lady's maid.

When the Princess had seen the wares she was quite enchanted, and said:
"They are all so beautifully made that I shall buy everything you have."
But Trusty John said: "I am only the servant of a rich merchant, what
I have here is nothing compared to what my master has on his ship; his
merchandise is more artistic and costly than anything that has ever been
made in gold before." She desired to have everything brought up to her,
but he said: "There is such a quantity of things that it would take many
days to bring them up, and they would take up so many rooms that
you would have no space for them in your house." Thus her desire and
curiosity were excited to such an extent that at last she said: "Take me
to your ship; I shall go there myself and view your master's treasures."

Then Trusty John was quite delighted, and brought her to the ship; and
the King, when he beheld her, saw that she was even more beautiful than
her picture, and thought every moment that his heart would burst. She
stepped on to the ship, and the King led her inside. But Trusty John
remained behind with the steersman, and ordered the ship to push off.
"Spread all sail, that we may fly on the ocean like a bird in the air."
Meanwhile the King showed the Princess inside all his gold wares, every
single bit of it--dishes, goblets, bowls, the birds and game, and all
the wonderful beasts. Many hours passed thus, and she was so happy that
she did not notice that the ship was sailing away. After she had seen
the last thing she thanked the merchant and prepared to go home; but
when she came to the ship's side she saw that they were on the high
seas, far from land, and that the ship was speeding on its way under
full canvas. "Oh!" she cried in terror, "I am deceived, carried away and
betrayed into the power of a merchant; I would rather have died!" But
the King seized her hand and spake: "I am no merchant, but a king of as
high birth as yourself; and it was my great love for you that made me
carry you off by stratagem. The first time I saw your likeness I fell to
the ground in a swoon." When the Princess of the Golden Roof heard this
she was comforted, and her heart went out to him, so that she willingly
consented to become his wife.

Now it happened one day, while they were sailing on the high seas,
that Trusty John, sitting on the forepart of the ship, fiddling away to
himself, observed three ravens in the air flying toward him. He ceased
playing, and listened to what they were saying, for he understood their
language. The one croaked: "Ah, ha! so he's bringing the Princess of
the Golden Roof home." "Yes," answered the second, "but he's not got her
yet." "Yes, he has," spake the third, "for she's sitting beside him on
the ship." Then number one began again and cried: "That'll not help him!
When they reach the land a chestnut horse will dash forward to greet
them: the King will wish to mount it, and if he does it will gallop away
with him, and disappear into the air, and he will never see his bride
again." "Is there no escape for him?" asked number two. "Oh! yes, if
someone else mounts quickly and shoots the horse dead with the pistol
that is sticking in the holster, then the young King is saved. But who's
to do that? And anyone who knows it and tells him will be turned into
stone from his feet to his knees." Then spake number two: "I know more
than that: even if the horse is slain, the young King will still not
keep his bride: when they enter the palace together they will find a
ready-made wedding shirt in a cupboard, which looks as though it were
woven of gold and silver, but is really made of nothing but sulphur and
tar: when the King puts it on it will burn him to his marrow and bones."
Number three asked: "Is there no way of escape, then?" "Oh! yes,"
answered number two: "If someone seizes the shirt with gloved hands and
throws it into the fire, and lets it burn, then the young King is saved.
But what's the good? Anyone knowing this and telling it will have half
his body turned into stone, from his knees to his heart." Then number
three spake: "I know yet more: though the bridal shirt too be burnt, the
King hasn't even then secured his bride: when the dance is held after
the wedding, and the young Queen is dancing, she will suddenly grow
deadly white, and drop down like one dead, and unless some one lifts her
up and draws three drops of blood from her right side, and spits them
out again, she will die. But if anyone who knows this betrays it, he
will be turned into stone from the crown of his head to the soles of his
feet." When the ravens had thus conversed they fled onward, but Trusty
John had taken it all in, and was sad and depressed from that time
forward; for if he were silent to his master concerning what he had
heard, he would involve him in misfortune; but if he took him into his
confidence, then he himself would forfeit his life. At last he said: "I
will stand by my master, though it should be my ruin."

Now when they drew near the land it came to pass just as the ravens had
predicted, and a splendid chestnut horse bounded forward. "Capital!"
said the King; "this animal shall carry me to my palace," and was about
to mount, but Trusty John was too sharp for him, and, springing up
quickly, seized the pistol out of the holster and shot the horse dead.
Then the other servants of the King, who at no time looked favorably on
Trusty John, cried out: "What a sin to kill the beautiful beast that was
to bear the King to his palace!" But the King spake: "Silence! let him
alone; he is ever my most trusty John. Who knows for what good end he
may have done this thing?" So they went on their way and entered
the palace, and there in the hall stood a cupboard in which lay the
ready-made bridal shirt, looking for all the world as though it were
made of gold and silver. The young King went toward it and was about to
take hold of it, but Trusty John, pushing him aside, seized it with his
gloved hands, threw it hastily into the fire, and let it burn The
other servants commenced grumbling again, and said: "See, he's actually
burning the King's bridal shirt." But the young King spoke: "Who knows
for what good purpose he does it? Let him alone, he is my most trusty
John." Then the wedding was celebrated, the dance began, and the bride
joined in, but Trusty John watched her countenance carefully. Of a
sudden she grew deadly white, and fell to the ground as if she were
dead. He at once sprang hastily toward her, lifted her up, and bore her
to a room, where he laid her down, and kneeling beside her he drew three
drops of blood from her right side, and spat them out. She soon
breathed again and came to herself; but the young King had watched the
proceeding, and not knowing why Trusty John had acted as he did, he flew
into a passion, and cried: "Throw him into prison." On the following
morning sentence was passed on Trusty John, and he was condemned to be
hanged. As he stood on the gallows he said: "Every one doomed to
death has the right to speak once before he dies; and I too have that
privilege?" "Yes," said the King, "it shall be granted to you." So
Trusty John spoke: "I am unjustly condemned, for I have always been
faithful to you"; and he proceeded to relate how he had heard the
ravens' conversation on the sea, and how he had to do all he did in
order to save his master. Then the King cried: "Oh! my most trusty John,
pardon! pardon! Take him down." But as he uttered the last word Trusty
John had fallen lifeless to the ground, and was a stone.

The King and Queen were in despair, and the King spake: "Ah! how ill
have I rewarded such great fidelity!" and made them lift up the stone
image and place it in his bedroom near his bed. As often as he looked at
it he wept and said: "Oh! if I could only restore you to life, my most
trusty John!" After a time the Queen gave birth to twins, two small
sons, who throve and grew, and were a constant joy to her. One day when
the Queen was at church, and the two children sat and played with their
father, he gazed again full of grief on the stone statue, and sighing,
wailed: "Oh, if I could only restore you to life, my most trusty John!"
Suddenly the stone began to speak, and said: "Yes, you can restore me
to life again if you are prepared to sacrifice what you hold most dear."
And the King cried out: "All I have in the world will I give up for your
sake." The stone continued: "If you cut off with your own hand the heads
of your two children, and smear me with their blood, I shall come back
to life." The King was aghast when he heard that he had himself to put
his children to death; but when he thought of Trusty John's fidelity,
and how he had even died for him, he drew his sword, and with his own
hand cut the heads off his children. And when he had smeared the stone
with their blood, life came back, and Trusty John stood once more safe
and sound before him. He spake to the King: "Your loyalty shall be
rewarded," and taking up the heads of the children, he placed them on
their bodies, smeared the wounds with their blood, and in a minute they
were all right again and jumping about as if nothing had happened.
Then the King was full of joy, and when he saw the Queen coming, he hid
Trusty John and the two children in a big cupboard. As she entered he
said to her: "Did you pray in church?" "Yes," she answered, "but my
thoughts dwelt constantly on Trusty John, and of what he has suffered
for us." Then he spake: "Dear wife, we can restore him to life, but the
price asked is our two little sons; we must sacrifice them." The Queen
grew white and her heart sank, but she replied: "We owe it to him on
account of his great fidelity." Then he rejoiced that she was of the
same mind as he had been, and going forward he opened the cupboard, and
fetched the two children and Trusty John out, saying: "God be praised!
Trusty John is free once more, and we have our two small sons again."
Then he related to her all that had passed, and they lived together
happily ever afterward.(1)


(1) Grimm.




THE BRAVE LITTLE TAILOR


One summer's day a little tailor sat on his table by the window in
the best of spirits, and sewed for dear life. As he was sitting thus a
peasant woman came down the street, calling out: "Good jam to sell,
good jam to sell." This sounded sweetly in the tailor's ears; he put
his frail little head out of the window, and shouted: "up here, my good
woman, and you'll find a willing customer." The woman climbed up the
three flights of stairs with her heavy basket to the tailor's room, and
he made her spread out all the pots in a row before him. He examined
them all, lifted them up and smelled them, and said at last: "This jam
seems good, weigh me four ounces of it, my good woman; and even if it's
a quarter of a pound I won't stick at it." The woman, who had hoped to
find a good market, gave him what he wanted, but went away grumbling
wrathfully. "Now heaven shall bless this jam for my use," cried the
little tailor, "and it shall sustain and strengthen me." He fetched some
bread out of a cupboard, cut a round off the loaf, and spread the jam on
it. "That won't taste amiss," he said; "but I'll finish that waistcoat
first before I take a bite." He placed the bread beside him, went
on sewing, and out of the lightness of his heart kept on making his
stitches bigger and bigger. In the meantime the smell of the sweet jam
rose to the ceiling, where heaps of flies were sitting, and attracted
them to such an extent that they swarmed on to it in masses. "Ha! who
invited you?" said the tailor, and chased the unwelcome guests away. But
the flies, who didn't understand English, refused to let themselves
be warned off, and returned again in even greater numbers. At last the
little tailor, losing all patience, reached out of his chimney corner
for a duster, and exclaiming: "Wait, and I'll give it to you," he beat
them mercilessly with it. When he left off he counted the slain, and
no fewer than seven lay dead before him with outstretched legs. "What a
desperate fellow I am!" said he, and was filled with admiration at his
own courage. "The whole town must know about this"; and in great haste
the little tailor cut out a girdle, hemmed it, and embroidered on it in
big letters, "Seven at a blow." "What did I say, the town? no, the whole
world shall hear of it," he said; and his heart beat for joy as a lamb
wags his tail.

The tailor strapped the girdle round his waist and set out into the wide
world, for he considered his workroom too small a field for his prowess.
Before he set forth he looked round about him, to see if there was
anything in the house he could take with him on his journey; but he
found nothing except an old cheese, which he took possession of. In
front of the house he observed a bird that had been caught in some
bushes, and this he put into his wallet beside the cheese. Then he went
on his way merrily, and being light and agile he never felt tired. His
way led up a hill, on the top of which sat a powerful giant, who was
calmly surveying the landscape. The little tailor went up to him, and
greeting him cheerfully said: "Good-day, friend; there you sit at your
ease viewing the whole wide world. I'm just on my way there. What do you
say to accompanying me?" The giant looked contemptuously at the tailor,
and said: "What a poor wretched little creature you are!" "That's a good
joke," answered the little tailor, and unbuttoning his coat he showed
the giant the girdle. "There now, you can read what sort of a fellow
I am." The giant read: "Seven at a blow"; and thinking they were human
beings the tailor had slain, he conceived a certain respect for the
little man. But first he thought he'd test him, so taking up a stone in
his hand, he squeezed it till some drops of water ran out. "Now you do
the same," said the giant, "if you really wish to be thought strong."
"Is that all?" said the little tailor; "that's child's play to me," so
he dived into his wallet, brought out the cheese, and pressed it till
the whey ran out. "My squeeze was in sooth better than yours," said he.
The giant didn't know what to say, for he couldn't have believed it
of the little fellow. To prove him again, the giant lifted a stone and
threw it so high that the eye could hardly follow it. "Now, my little
pigmy, let me see you do that." "Well thrown," said the tailor; "but,
after all, your stone fell to the ground; I'll throw one that won't come
down at all." He dived into his wallet again, and grasping the bird in
his hand, he threw it up into the air. The bird, enchanted to be free,
soared up into the sky, and flew away never to return. "Well, what do
you think of that little piece of business, friend?" asked the tailor.
"You can certainly throw," said the giant; "but now let's see if you can
carry a proper weight." With these words he led the tailor to a huge oak
tree which had been felled to the ground, and said: "If you are strong
enough, help me to carry the tree out of the wood." "Most certainly,"
said the little tailor: "just you take the trunk on your shoulder; I'll
bear the top and branches, which is certainly the heaviest part." The
giant laid the trunk on his shoulder, but the tailor sat at his ease
among the branches; and the giant, who couldn't see what was going on
behind him, had to carry the whole tree, and the little tailor into the
bargain. There he sat behind in the best of spirits, lustily whistling a
tune, as if carrying the tree were mere sport. The giant, after dragging
the heavy weight for some time, could get on no further, and shouted
out: "Hi! I must let the tree fall." The tailor sprang nimbly down,
seized the tree with both hands as if he had carried it the whole way
and said to the giant: "Fancy a big lout like you not being able to
carry a tree!"

They continued to go on their way together, and as they passed by a
cherry tree the giant grasped the top of it, where the ripest fruit
hung, gave the branches into the tailor's hand, and bade him eat. But
the little tailor was far too weak to hold the tree down, and when the
giant let go the tree swung back into the air, bearing the little tailor
with it. When he had fallen to the ground again without hurting himself,
the giant said: "What! do you mean to tell me you haven't the strength
to hold down a feeble twig?" "It wasn't strength that was wanting,"
replied the tailor; "do you think that would have been anything for a
man who has killed seven at a blow? I jumped over the tree because the
huntsmen are shooting among the branches near us. Do you do the like if
you dare." The giant made an attempt, but couldn't get over the tree,
and stuck fast in the branches, so that here too the little tailor had
the better of him.

"Well, you're a fine fellow, after all," said the giant; "come and spend
the night with us in our cave." The little tailor willingly consented to
do this, and following his friend they went on till they reached a cave
where several other giants were sitting round a fire, each holding
a roast sheep in his hand, of which he was eating. The little tailor
looked about him, and thought: "Yes, there's certainly more room to turn
round in here than in my workshop." The giant showed him a bed and bade
him lie down and have a good sleep. But the bed was too big for the
little tailor, so he didn't get into it, but crept away into the corner.
At midnight, when the giant thought the little tailor was fast asleep,
he rose up, and taking his big iron walking-stick, he broke the bed
in two with a blow, and thought he had made an end of the little
grasshopper. At early dawn the giants went off to the wood, and quite
forgot about the little tailor, till all of a sudden they met him
trudging along in the most cheerful manner. The giants were terrified at
the apparition, and, fearful lest he should slay them, they all took to
their heels as fast as they could.

The little tailor continued to follow his nose, and after he had
wandered about for a long time he came to the courtyard of a royal
palace, and feeling tired he lay down on the grass and fell asleep.
While he lay there the people came, and looking him all over read on his
girdle: "Seven at a blow." "Oh!" they said, "what can this great hero of
a hundred fights want in our peaceful land? He must indeed be a mighty
man of valor." They went and told the King about him, and said what a
weighty and useful man he'd be in time of war, and that it would be well
to secure him at any price. This counsel pleased the King, and he sent
one of his courtiers down to the little tailor, to offer him, when he
awoke, a commission in their army. The messenger remained standing by
the sleeper, and waited till he stretched his limbs and opened his eyes,
when he tendered his proposal. "That's the very thing I came here for,"
he answered; "I am quite ready to enter the King's service." So he was
received with all honor, and given a special house of his own to live
in.

But the other officers resented the success of the little tailor, and
wished him a thousand miles away. "What's to come of it all?" they asked
each other; "if we quarrel with him, he'll let out at us, and at every
blow seven will fall. There'll soon be an end of us." So they resolved
to go in a body to the King, and all to send in their papers. "We are
not made," they said, "to hold out against a man who kills seven at a
blow." The King was grieved at the thought of losing all his faithful
servants for the sake of one man, and he wished heartily that he had
never set eyes on him, or that he could get rid of him. But he didn't
dare to send him away, for he feared he might kill him along with his
people, and place himself on the throne. He pondered long and deeply
over the matter, and finally came to a conclusion. He sent to the tailor
and told him that, seeing what a great and warlike hero he was, he
was about to make him an offer. In a certain wood of his kingdom there
dwelled two giants who did much harm; by the way they robbed, murdered,
burned, and plundered everything about them; "no one could approach them
without endangering his life. But if he could overcome and kill these
two giants he should have his only daughter for a wife, and half his
kingdom into the bargain; he might have a hundred horsemen, too, to back
him up." "That's the very thing for a man like me," thought the little
tailor; "one doesn't get the offer of a beautiful princess and half a
kingdom every day." "Done with you," he answered; "I'll soon put an end
to the giants. But I haven't the smallest need of your hundred horsemen;
a fellow who can slay seven men at a blow need not be afraid of two."

The little tailor set out, and the hundred horsemen followed him. When
he came to the outskirts of the wood he said to his followers: "You wait
here, I'll manage the giants by myself"; and he went on into the wood,
casting his sharp little eyes right and left about him. After a while
he spied the two giants lying asleep under a tree, and snoring till
the very boughs bent with the breeze. The little tailor lost no time in
filling his wallet with stones, and then climbed up the tree under
which they lay. When he got to about the middle of it he slipped along a
branch till he sat just above the sleepers, when he threw down one stone
after the other on the nearest giant. The giant felt nothing for a long
time, but at last he woke up, and pinching his companion said: "What did
you strike me for?" "I didn't strike you," said the other, "you must be
dreaming." They both lay down to sleep again, and the tailor threw down
a stone on the second giant, who sprang up and cried: "What's that for?
Why did you throw something at me?" "I didn't throw anything," growled
the first one. They wrangled on for a time, till, as both were tired,
they made up the matter and fell asleep again. The little tailor began
his game once more, and flung the largest stone he could find in his
wallet with all his force, and hit the first giant on the chest. "This
is too much of a good thing!" he yelled, and springing up like a madman,
he knocked his companion against the tree till he trembled. He gave,
however, as good as he got, and they became so enraged that they tore up
trees and beat each other with them, till they both fell dead at once on
the ground. Then the little tailor jumped down. "It's a mercy," he said,
"that they didn't root up the tree on which I was perched, or I should
have had to jump like a squirrel on to another, which, nimble though I
am, would have been no easy job." He drew his sword and gave each of
the giants a very fine thrust or two on the breast, and then went to
the horsemen and said: "The deed is done, I've put an end to the two of
them; but I assure you it has been no easy matter, for they even tore up
trees in their struggle to defend themselves; but all that's of no use
against one who slays seven men at a blow." "Weren't you wounded?" asked
the horsemen.

"No fear," answered the tailor; "they haven't touched a hair of my
head." But the horsemen wouldn't believe him till they rode into the
wood and found the giants weltering in their blood, and the trees lying
around, torn up by the roots.

The little tailor now demanded the promised reward from the King, but he
repented his promise, and pondered once more how he could rid himself
of the hero. "Before you obtain the hand of my daughter and half my
kingdom," he said to him, "you must do another deed of valor. A unicorn
is running about loose in the wood, and doing much mischief; you must
first catch it." "I'm even less afraid of one unicorn than of two
giants; seven at a blow, that's my motto." He took a piece of cord and
an axe with him, went out to the wood, and again told the men who had
been sent with him to remain outside. He hadn't to search long, for the
unicorn soon passed by, and, on perceiving the tailor, dashed straight
at him as though it were going to spike him on the spot. "Gently,
gently," said he, "not so fast, my friend"; and standing still he waited
till the beast was quite near, when he sprang lightly behind a tree; the
unicorn ran with all its force against the tree, and rammed its horn so
firmly into the trunk that it had no strength left to pull it out again,
and was thus successfully captured. "Now I've caught my bird," said the
tailor, and he came out from behind the tree, placed the cord round its
neck first, then struck the horn out of the tree with his axe, and when
everything was in order led the beast before the King.

Still the King didn't want to give him the promised reward and made a
third demand. The tailor was to catch a wild boar for him that did a
great deal of harm in the wood; and he might have the huntsmen to help
him. "Willingly," said the tailor; "that's mere child's play." But he
didn't take the huntsmen into the wood with him, and they were well
enough pleased to remain behind, for the wild boar had often
received them in a manner which did not make them desire its further
acquaintance. As soon as the boar perceived the tailor it ran at him
with foaming mouth and gleaming teeth, and tried to knock him down; but
our alert little friend ran into a chapel that stood near, and got out
of the window again with a jump. The boar pursued him into the church,
but the tailor skipped round to the door, and closed it securely. So the
raging beast was caught, for it was far too heavy and unwieldy to spring
out of the window. The little tailor summoned the huntsmen together,
that they might see the prisoner with their own eyes. Then the hero
betook himself to the King, who was obliged now, whether he liked it or
not, to keep his promise, and hand him over his daughter and half his
kingdom. Had he known that no hero-warrior, but only a little tailor
stood before him, it would have gone even more to his heart. So the
wedding was celebrated with much splendor and little joy, and the tailor
became a king.

After a time the Queen heard her husband saying one night in his sleep:
"My lad, make that waistcoat and patch these trousers, or I'll box your
ears." Thus she learned in what rank the young gentleman had been born,
and next day she poured forth her woes to her father, and begged him to
help her to get rid of a husband who was nothing more nor less than a
tailor. The King comforted her, and said: "Leave your bedroom door open
to-night, my servants shall stand outside, and when your husband is
fast asleep they shall enter, bind him fast, and carry him on to a
ship, which shall sail away out into the wide ocean." The Queen was
well satisfied with the idea, but the armor-bearer, who had overheard
everything, being much attached to his young master, went straight to
him and revealed the whole plot. "I'll soon put a stop to the business,"
said the tailor. That night he and his wife went to bed at the usual
time; and when she thought he had fallen asleep she got up, opened the
door, and then lay down again. The little tailor, who had only pretended
to be asleep, began to call out in a clear voice: "My lad, make that
waistcoat and patch those trousers, or I'll box your ears. I have killed
seven at a blow, slain two giants, led a unicorn captive, and caught a
wild boar, then why should I be afraid of those men standing outside my
door?" The men, when they heard the tailor saying these words, were so
terrified that they fled as if pursued by a wild army, and didn't dare
go near him again. So the little tailor was and remained a king all the
days of his life.




A VOYAGE TO LILLIPUT


CHAPTER I


My father had a small estate in Nottinghamshire, and I was the third
of four sons. He sent me to Cambridge at fourteen years old, and after
studying there three years I was bound apprentice to Mr. Bates, a famous
surgeon in London. There, as my father now and then sent me small sums
of money, I spent them in learning navigation, and other arts useful to
those who travel, as I always believed it would be some time or other my
fortune to do.

Three years after my leaving him my good master, Mr. Bates, recommended
me as ship's surgeon to the "Swallow," on which I voyaged three years.
When I came back I settled in London, and, having taken part of a
small house, I married Miss Mary Burton, daughter of Mr. Edmund Burton,
hosier.

But my good master Bates died two years after; and as I had few friends
my business began to fail, and I determined to go again to sea. After
several voyages, I accepted an offer from Captain W. Pritchard, master
of the "Antelope," who was making a voyage to the South Sea. We set sail
from Bristol, May 4, 1699; and our voyage at first was very prosperous.

But in our passage to the East Indies we were driven by a violent storm
to the north-west of Van Diemen's Land. Twelve of our crew died from
hard labor and bad food, and the rest were in a very weak condition.
On the 5th of November, the weather being very hazy, the seamen spied
a rock within 120 yards of the ship; but the wind was so strong that we
were driven straight upon it, and immediately split. Six of the crew,
of whom I was one, letting down the boat, got clear of the ship, and we
rowed about three leagues, till we could work no longer. We therefore
trusted ourselves to the mercy of the waves; and in about half an hour
the boat was upset by a sudden squall. What became of my companions in
the boat, or those who escaped on the rock or were left in the vessel,
I cannot tell; but I conclude they were all lost. For my part, I swam as
fortune directed me, and was pushed forward by wind and tide; but when
I was able to struggle no longer I found myself within my depth. By this
time the storm was much abated. I reached the shore at last, about eight
o'clock in the evening, and advanced nearly half a mile inland, but
could not discover any sign of inhabitants. I was extremely tired, and
with the heat of the weather I found myself much inclined to sleep. I
lay down on the grass, which was very short and soft, and slept sounder
than ever I did in my life for about nine hours. When I woke, it was
just daylight. I attempted to rise, but could not; for as I happened to
be lying on my back, I found my arms and legs were fastened on each side
to the ground; and my hair, which was long and thick, tied down in the
same manner. I could only look upward. The sun began to grow hot, and
the light hurt my eyes. I heard a confused noise about me, but could
see nothing except the sky. In a little time I felt something alive
and moving on my left leg, which, advancing gently over my breast, came
almost up to my chin, when, bending my eyes downward, I perceived it to
be a human creature, not six inches high, with a bow and arrow in his
hands, and a quiver at his back. In the meantime I felt at least forty
more following the first. I was in the utmost astonishment, and roared
so loud that they all ran back in a fright; and some of them were
hurt with the falls they got by leaping from my sides upon the ground.
However, they soon returned, and one of them, who ventured so far as to
get a full sight of my face, lifted up his hands in admiration. I lay
all this while in great uneasiness; but at length, struggling to get
loose, I succeeded in breaking the strings that fastened my left arm
to the ground; and at the same time, with a violent pull that gave me
extreme pain, I a little loosened the strings that tied down my hair, so
that I was just able to turn my head about two inches. But the creatures
ran off a second time before I could seize them, whereupon there was a
great shout, and in an instant I felt above a hundred arrows discharged
on my left hand, which pricked me like so many needles. Moreover, they
shot another flight into the air, of which some fell on my face, which
I immediately covered with my left hand. When this shower of arrows
was over I groaned with grief and pain, and then, striving again to get
loose, they discharged another flight of arrows larger than the first,
and some of them tried to stab me with their spears; but by good luck
I had on a leather jacket, which they could not pierce. By this time
I thought it most prudent to lie still till night, when, my left
hand being already loose, I could easily free myself; and as for the
inhabitants, I thought I might be a match for the greatest army they
could bring against me if they were all of the same size as him I
saw. When the people observed that I was quiet they discharged no more
arrows, but by the noise I heard I knew that their number was increased;
and about four yards from me, for more than an hour, there was a
knocking, like people at work. Then, turning my head that way as well
as the pegs and strings would let me, I saw a stage set up, about a foot
and a half from the ground, with two or three ladders to mount it. From
this, one of them, who seemed to be a person of quality, made me a long
speech, of which I could not understand a word, though I could tell from
his manner that he sometimes threatened me, and sometimes spoke with
pity and kindness. I answered in few words, but in the most submissive
manner; and, being almost famished with hunger, I could not help showing
my impatience by putting my finger frequently to my mouth, to signify
that I wanted food. He understood me very well, and, descending from the
stage, commanded that several ladders should be set against my sides, on
which more than a hundred of the inhabitants mounted, and walked toward
my mouth with baskets full of food, which had been sent by the King's
orders when he first received tidings of me. There were legs and
shoulders like mutton but smaller than the wings of a lark. I ate
them two or three at a mouthful, and took three loaves at a time. They
supplied me as fast as they could, with a thousand marks of wonder at
my appetite. I then made a sign that I wanted something to drink. They
guessed that a small quantity would not suffice me, and, being a most
ingenious people, they slung up one of their largest hogsheads, then
rolled it toward my hand, and beat out the top. I drank it off at a
draught, which I might well do, for it did not hold half a pint. They
brought me a second hogshead, which I drank, and made signs for more;
but they had none to give me. However, I could not wonder enough at the
daring of these tiny mortals, who ventured to mount and walk upon my
body, while one of my hands was free, without trembling at the very
sight of so huge a creature as I must have seemed to them. After some
time there appeared before me a person of high rank from his Imperial
Majesty. His Excellency, having mounted my right leg, advanced to my
face, with about a dozen of his retinue, and spoke about ten minutes,
often pointing forward, which, as I afterward found, was toward the
capital city, about half a mile distant, whither it was commanded by his
Majesty that I should be conveyed. I made a sign with my hand that was
loose, putting it to the other (but over his Excellency's head, for
fear of hurting him or his train), to show that I desired my liberty.
He seemed to understand me well enough, for he shook his head, though
he made other signs to let me know that I should have meat and drink
enough, and very good treatment. Then I once more thought of attempting
to escape; but when I felt the smart of their arrows on my face and
hands, which were all in blisters and observed likewise that the number
of my enemies increased, I gave tokens to let them know that they might
do with me what they pleased. Then they daubed my face and hands with a
sweet-smelling ointment, which in a few minutes removed all the smarts
of the arrows. The relief from pain and hunger made me drowsy, and
presently I fell asleep. I slept about eight hours, as I was told
afterward; and it was no wonder, for the physicians, by the Emperor's
orders, had mingled a sleeping draught in the hogsheads of wine.

It seems that, when I was discovered sleeping on the ground after my
landing, the Emperor had early notice of it, and determined that I
should be tied in the manner I have related (which was done in the
night, while I slept), that plenty of meat and drink should be sent me,
and a machine prepared to carry me to the capital city. Five hundred
carpenters and engineers were immediately set to work to prepare the
engine. It was a frame of wood, raised three inches from the ground,
about seven feet long and four wide, moving upon twenty-two wheels. But
the difficulty was to place me on it. Eighty poles were erected for this
purpose, and very strong cords fastened to bandages which the workmen
had tied round my neck, hands, body, and legs. Nine hundred of the
strongest men were employed to draw up these cords by pulleys fastened
on the poles, and in less than three hours I was raised and slung
into the engine, and there tied fast. Fifteen hundred of the Emperor's
largest horses, each about four inches and a half high, were then
employed to draw me toward the capital. But while all this was done I
still lay in a deep sleep, and I did not wake till four hours after we
began our journey.

The Emperor and all his Court came out to meet us when we reached the
capital; but his great officials would not suffer his Majesty to risk
his person by mounting on my body. Where the carriage stopped there
stood an ancient temple, supposed to be the largest in the whole
kingdom, and here it was determined that I should lodge. Near the great
gate, through which I could easily creep, they fixed ninety-one chains,
like those which hang to a lady's watch, which were locked to my
left leg with thirty-six padlocks; and when the workmen found it was
impossible for me to break loose, they cut all the strings that bound
me. Then I rose up, feeling as melancholy as ever I did in my life. But
the noise and astonishment of the people on seeing me rise and walk were
inexpressible. The chains that held my left leg were about two yards
long, and gave me not only freedom to walk backward and forward in a
semicircle, but to creep in and lie at full length inside the temple.
The Emperor, advancing toward me from among his courtiers, all most
magnificently clad, surveyed me with great admiration, but kept beyond
the length of my chain. He was taller by about the breadth of my nail
than any of his Court, which alone was enough to strike awe into the
beholders, and graceful and majestic. The better to behold him, I lay
down on my side, so that my face was level with his, and he stood three
yards off. However, I have had him since many times in my hand, and
therefore cannot be deceived. His dress was very simple; but he wore a
light helmet of gold, adorned with jewels and a plume. He held his sword
drawn in his hand, to defend himself if I should break loose; it was
almost three inches long, and the hilt was of gold, enriched with
diamonds. His voice was shrill, but very clear. His Imperial Majesty
spoke often to me, and I answered; but neither of us could understand a
word.


CHAPTER II


After about two hours the Court retired, and I was left with a strong
guard to keep away the crowd, some of whom had had the impudence to
shoot their arrows at me as I sat by the door of my house. But the
colonel ordered six of them to be seized and delivered bound into my
hands. I put five of them into my coat pocket; and as to the sixth, I
made a face as if I would eat him alive. The poor man screamed terribly,
and the colonel and his officers were much distressed, especially when
they saw me take out my penknife. But I soon set them at ease, for,
cutting the strings he was bound with, I put him gently on the ground,
and away he ran. I treated the rest in the same manner, taking them one
by one out of my pocket; and I saw that both the soldiers and people
were delighted at this mark of my kindness.

Toward night I got with some difficulty into my house, where I lay on
the ground, as I had to do for a fortnight, till a bed was prepared for
me out of six hundred beds of the ordinary measure.

Six hundred servants were appointed me, and three hundred tailors made
me a suit of clothes. Moreover, six of his Majesty's greatest scholars
were employed to teach me their language, so that soon I was able to
converse after a fashion with the Emperor, who often honored me with his
visits. The first words I learned were to desire that he would please
to give me my liberty, which I every day repeated on my knees; but he
answered that this must be a work of time, and that first I must swear a
peace with him and his kingdom. He told me also that by the laws of the
nation I must be searched by two of his officers, and that as this could
not be done without my help, he trusted them in my hands, and whatever
they took from me should be returned when I left the country. I took up
the two officers, and put them into my coat pockets. These gentlemen,
having pen, ink, and paper about them, made an exact list of everything
they saw, which I afterward translated into English, and which ran as
follows:

"In the right coat pocket of the great Man-Mountain we found only one
great piece of coarse cloth, large enough to cover the carpet of your
Majesty's chief room of state. In the left pocket we saw a huge silver
chest, with a silver cover, which we could not lift. We desired that it
should be opened, and one of us stepping into it found himself up to the
mid-leg in a sort of dust, some of which flying into our faces sent us
both into a fit of sneezing. In his right waistcoat pocket we found a
number of white thin substances, folded one over another, about the size
of three men, tied with a strong cable, and marked with black figures,
which we humbly conceive to be writings. In the left there was a sort of
engine, from the back of which extended twenty long poles, with which,
we conjecture, the Man-Mountain combs his head. In the smaller pocket on
the right side were several round flat pieces of white and red metal, of
different sizes. Some of the white, which appeared to be silver, were
so large and heavy that my comrade and I could hardly lift them. From
another pocket hung a huge silver chain, with a wonderful kind of engine
fastened to it, a globe half silver and half of some transparent metal;
for on the transparent side we saw certain strange figures, and thought
we could touch them till we found our fingers stopped by the shining
substance. This engine made an incessant noise, like a water-mill, and
we conjecture it is either some unknown animal, or the god he worships,
but probably the latter, for he told us that he seldom did anything
without consulting it.

"This is a list of what we found about the body of the Man-Mountain, who
treated us with great civility."

I had one private pocket which escaped their search, containing a pair
of spectacles and a small spy-glass, which, being of no consequence to
the Emperor, I did not think myself bound in honor to discover.


CHAPTER III


My gentleness and good behavior gained so far on the Emperor and his
Court, and, indeed, on the people in general, that I began to have hopes
of getting my liberty in a short time. The natives came by degrees to be
less fearful of danger from me. I would sometimes lie down and let five
or six of them dance on my hand; and at last the boys and girls ventured
to come and play at hide-and-seek in my hair.

The horses of the army and of the royal stables were no longer shy,
having been daily led before me; and one of the Emperor's huntsmen, on a
large courser, took my foot, shoe and all, which was indeed a prodigious
leap. I amused the Emperor one day in a very extraordinary manner. I
took nine sticks, and fixed them firmly in the ground in a square. Then
I took four other sticks, and tied them parallel at each corner, about
two feet from the ground. I fastened my handkerchief to the nine sticks
that stood erect, and extended it on all sides till it was as tight as
the top of a drum; and I desired the Emperor to let a troop of his best
horse, twenty-four in number, come and exercise upon this plain. His
majesty approved of the proposal, and I took them up one by one, with
the proper officers to exercise them. As soon as they got into order
they divided into two parties, discharged blunt arrows, drew their
swords, fled and pursued, and, in short, showed the best military
discipline I ever beheld. The parallel sticks secured them and their
horses from falling off the stage, and the Emperor was so much delighted
that he ordered this entertainment to be repeated several days, and
persuaded the Empress herself to let me hold her in her chair within
two yards of the stage, whence she could view the whole performance.
Fortunately no accident happened, only once a fiery horse, pawing with
his hoof, struck a hole in my handkerchief, and overthrew his rider and
himself. But I immediately relieved them both, and covering the hole
with one hand, I set down the troop with the other as I had taken them
up. The horse that fell was strained in the shoulder; but the rider was
not hurt, and I repaired my handkerchief as well as I could. However,
I would not trust to the strength of it any more in such dangerous
enterprises.

I had sent so many petitions for my liberty that his Majesty at length
mentioned the matter in a full council, where it was opposed by none
except Skyresh Bolgolam, admiral of the realm, who was pleased without
any provocation to be my mortal enemy. However, he agreed at length,
though he succeeded in himself drawing up the conditions on which I
should be set free. After they were read I was requested to swear to
perform them in the method prescribed by their laws, which was to hold
my right foot in my left hand, and to place the middle finger of my
right hand on the crown of my head, and my thumb on the top of my right
ear. But I have made a translation of the conditions, which I here offer
to the public:

"Golbaste Mamarem Evlame Gurdile Shefin Mully Ully Gue, Most Mighty
Emperor of Lilliput, delight and terror of the universe, whose dominions
extend to the ends of the globe, monarch of all monarchs, taller than
the sons of men, whose feet press down to the center, and whose head
strikes against the sun, at whose nod the princes of the earth shake
their knees, pleasant as the spring, comfortable as the summer, fruitful
as autumn, dreadful as winter: His Most Sublime Majesty proposeth to the
Man-Mountain, lately arrived at our celestial dominions, the following
articles, which by a solemn oath he shall be obliged to perform:

"First. The Man-Mountain shall not depart from our dominions without our
license under the great seal.

"Second. He shall not presume to come into our metropolis without our
express order, at which time the inhabitants shall have two hours'
warning to keep within doors.

"Third. The said Man-Mountain shall confine his walks to our principal
high roads, and not offer to walk or lie down in a meadow or field of
corn.

"Fourth. As he walks the said roads he shall take the utmost care not to
trample upon the bodies of any of our loving subjects, their horses or
carriages, nor take any of our subjects into his hands without their own
consent.

"Fifth. If an express requires extraordinary speed the Man-Mountain
shall be obliged to carry in his pocket the messenger and horse a six
days' journey, and return the said messenger (if so required) safe to
our imperial presence.

"Sixth. He shall be our ally against our enemies in the island of
Blefuscu, and do his utmost to destroy their fleet, which is now
preparing to invade us.

"Lastly. Upon his solemn oath to observe all the above articles,
the said Man-Mountain shall have a daily allowance of meat and drink
sufficient for the support of 1,724 of our subjects, with free access to
our royal person, and other marks of our favor. Given at our palace at
Belfaburac, the twelfth day of the ninety-first moon of our reign."

I swore to these articles with great cheerfulness, whereupon my chains
were immediately unlocked, and I was at full liberty.

One morning, about a fortnight after I had obtained my freedom,
Reldresal, the Emperor's secretary for private affairs, came to my
house, attended only by one servant. He ordered his coach to wait at
a distance, and desired that I would give him an hour's audience. I
offered to lie down that he might the more conveniently reach my
ear; but he chose rather to let me hold him in my hand during our
conversation. He began with compliments on my liberty, but he added
that, save for the present state of things at Court, perhaps I might not
have obtained it so soon. "For," he said, "however flourishing we may
seem to foreigners, we are in danger of an invasion from the island of
Blefuscu, which is the other great empire of the universe, almost as
large and as powerful as this of his Majesty. For as to what we have
heard you say, that there are other kingdoms in the world, inhabited
by human creatures as large as yourself, our philosophers are very
doubtful, and rather conjecture that you dropped from the moon, or one
of the stars, because a hundred mortals of your size would soon destroy
all the fruit and cattle of his Majesty's dominions. Besides, our
histories of six thousand moons make no mention of any other regions
than the two mighty empires of Lilliput and Blefuscu, which, as I was
going to tell you, are engaged in a most obstinate war, which began in
the following manner: It is allowed on all hands that the primitive
way of breaking eggs was upon the larger end; but his present Majesty's
grandfather, while he was a boy, going to eat an egg, and breaking it
according to the ancient practice, happened to cut one of his fingers.
Whereupon the Emperor, his father, made a law commanding all his
subjects to break the smaller end of their eggs. The people so highly
resented this law that there have been six rebellions raised on that
account, wherein one emperor lost his life, and another his crown. It is
calculated that eleven hundred persons have at different times suffered
rather than break their eggs at the smaller end. But these rebels,
the Bigendians, have found so much encouragement at the Emperor of
Blefuscu's Court, to which they always fled for refuge, that a bloody
war, as I said, has been carried on between the two empires for
six-and-thirty moons; and now the Blefuscudians have equipped a large
fleet, and are preparing to descend upon us. Therefore his Imperial
Majesty, placing great confidence in your valor and strength, has
commanded me to set the case before you."

I desired the secretary to present my humble duty to the Emperor, and
to let him know that I was ready, at the risk of my life, to defend him
against all invaders.


CHAPTER IV


It was not long before I communicated to his Majesty the plan I formed
for seizing the enemy's whole fleet. The Empire of Blefuscu is an island
parted from Lilliput only by a channel eight hundred yards wide. I
consulted the most experienced seamen on the depth of the channel, and
they told me that in the middle, at high water, it was seventy glumguffs
(about six feet of European measure). I walked toward the coast, where,
lying down behind a hillock, I took out my spy-glass, and viewed the
enemy's fleet at anchor--about fifty men-of-war, and other vessels. I
then came back to my house and gave orders for a great quantity of
the strongest cables and bars of iron. The cable was about as thick as
packthread, and the bars of the length and size of a knitting-needle. I
trebled the cable to make it stronger, and for the same reason twisted
three of the iron bars together, bending the ends into a hook. Having
thus fixed fifty hooks to as many cables, I went back to the coast,
and taking off my coat, shoes, and stockings, walked into the sea in my
leather jacket about half an hour before high water. I waded with what
haste I could, swimming in the middle about thirty yards, till I felt
ground, and thus arrived at the fleet in less than half an hour. The
enemy was so frightened when they saw me that they leaped out of their
ships and swam ashore, where there could not be fewer than thirty
thousand. Then, fastening a hook to the hole at the prow of each ship,
I tied all the cords together at the end. Meanwhile the enemy discharged
several thousand arrows, many of which stuck in my hands and face. My
greatest fear was for my eyes, which I should have lost if I had
not suddenly thought of the pair of spectacles which had escaped the
Emperor's searchers. These I took out and fastened upon my nose, and
thus armed went on with my work in spite of the arrows, many of which
struck against the glasses of my spectacles, but without any other
effect than slightly disturbing them. Then, taking the knot in my hand,
I began to pull; but not a ship would stir, for they were too fast
held by their anchors. Thus the boldest part of my enterprise remained.
Letting go the cord, I resolutely cut with my knife the cables that
fastened the anchors, receiving more than two hundred shots in my face
and hands. Then I took up again the knotted end of the cables to which
my hooks were tied, and with great ease drew fifty of the enemy's
largest men-of-war after me.

When the Blefuscudians saw the fleet moving in order, and me pulling at
the end, they set up a scream of grief and despair that it is impossible
to describe. When I had got out of danger I stopped awhile to pick out
the arrows that stuck in my hands and face, and rubbed on some of
the same ointment that was given me at my arrival. I then took off my
spectacles, and after waiting about an hour, till the tide was a little
fallen, I waded on to the royal port of Lilliput.

The Emperor and his whole Court stood on the shore awaiting me. They saw
the ships move forward in a large half-moon, but could not discern me,
who, in the middle of the channel, was under water up to my neck. The
Emperor concluded that I was drowned, and that the enemy's fleet was
approaching in a hostile manner. But he was soon set at ease, for, the
channel growing shallower every step I made, I came in a short time
within hearing, and holding up the end of the cable by which the fleet
was fastened, I cried in a loud voice: "Long live the most puissant
Emperor of Lilliput!" The Prince received me at my landing with all
possible joy, and made me a Nardal on the spot, which is the highest
title of honor among them.

His Majesty desired that I would take some opportunity to bring all the
rest of his enemy's ships into his ports, and seemed to think of nothing
less than conquering the whole Empire of Blefuscu, and becoming the sole
monarch of the world. But I plainly protested that I would never be the
means of bringing a free and brave people into slavery; and though
the wisest of the Ministers were of my opinion, my open refusal was so
opposed to his Majesty's ambition that he could never forgive me. And
from this time a plot began between himself and those of his Ministers
who were my enemies, that nearly ended in my utter destruction.

About three weeks after this exploit there arrived an embassy from
Blefuscu, with humble offers of peace, which was soon concluded, on
terms very advantageous to our Emperor. There were six ambassadors, with
a train of about five hundred persons, all very magnificent. Having been
privately told that I had befriended them, they made me a visit, and
paying me many compliments on my valor and generosity, invited me
to their kingdom in the Emperor their master's name. I asked them to
present my most humble respects to the Emperor their master, whose
royal person I resolved to attend before I returned to my own country.
Accordingly, the next time I had the honor to see our Emperor I desired
his general permission to visit the Blefuscudian monarch. This he
granted me, but in a very cold manner, of which I afterward learned the
reason.

When I was just preparing to pay my respects to the Emperor of Blefuscu,
a distinguished person at Court, to whom I had once done a great
service, came to my house very privately at night, and without sending
his name desired admission. I put his lordship into my coat pocket, and,
giving orders to a trusty servant to admit no one, I fastened the door,
placed my visitor on the table, and sat down by it. His lordship's face
was full of trouble; and he asked me to hear him with patience, in a
matter that highly concerned my honor and my life.

"You are aware," he said, "that Skyresh Bolgolam has been your mortal
enemy ever since your arrival, and his hatred is increased since
your great success against Blefuscu, by which his glory as admiral is
obscured. This lord and others have accused you of treason, and several
councils have been called in the most private manner on your account.
Out of gratitude for your favors I procured information of the whole
proceedings, venturing my head for your service, and this was the charge
against you:

"First, that you, having brought the imperial fleet of Blefuscu into the
royal port, were commanded by his Majesty to seize all the other ships,
and put to death all the Bigendian exiles, and also all the people of
the empire who would not immediately consent to break their eggs at the
smaller end. And that, like a false traitor to his Most Serene Majesty,
you excused yourself from the service on pretence of unwillingness to
force the consciences and destroy the liberties and lives of an innocent
people.

"Again, when ambassadors arrived from the Court of Blefuscu, like a
false traitor, you aided and entertained them, though you knew them to
be servants of a prince lately in open war against his Imperial Majesty.

"Moreover, you are now preparing, contrary to the duty of a faithful
subject, to voyage to the Court of Blefuscu.

"In the debate on this charge," my friend continued, "his Majesty often
urged the services you had done him, while the admiral and treasurer
insisted that you should be put to a shameful death. But Reldresal,
secretary for private affairs, who has always proved himself your friend
suggested that if his Majesty would please to spare your life and only
give orders to put out both your eyes, justice might in some measure be
satisfied. At this Bolgolam rose up in fury, wondering how the secretary
dared desire to preserve the life of a traitor; and the treasurer,
pointing out the expense of keeping you, also urged your death. But his
Majesty was graciously pleased to say that since the council thought the
loss of your eyes too easy a punishment, some other might afterward be
inflicted. And the secretary, humbly desiring to be heard again, said
that as to expense your allowance might be gradually lessened, so that,
for want of sufficient food you should grow weak and faint, and die in
a few months, when his Majesty's subjects might cut your flesh from your
bones and bury it, leaving the skeleton for the admiration of posterity.

"Thus, through the great friendship of the secretary the affair was
arranged. It was commanded that the plan of starving you by degrees
should be kept a secret; but the sentence of putting out your eyes was
entered on the books. In three days your friend the secretary will come
to your house and read the accusation before you, and point out the
great mercy of his Majesty, that only condemns you to the loss of
your eyes--which, he does not doubt, you will submit to humbly and
gratefully. Twenty of his Majesty's surgeons will attend, to see the
operation well performed, by discharging very sharp-pointed arrows into
the balls of your eyes as you lie on the ground.

"I leave you," said my friend, "to consider what measures you will take;
and, to escape suspicion, I must immediately return, as secretly as I
came."

His lordship did so; and I remained alone, in great perplexity. At first
I was bent on resistance; for while I had liberty I could easily with
stones pelt the metropolis to pieces; but I soon rejected that idea with
horror, remembering the oath I had made to the Emperor, and the favors
I had received from him. At last, having his Majesty's leave to pay
my respects to the Emperor of Blefuscu, I resolved to take this
opportunity. Before the three days had passed I wrote a letter to my
friend the secretary telling him of my resolution; and, without waiting
for an answer, went to the coast, and entering the channel, between
wading and swimming reached the port of Blefuscu, where the people, who
had long expected me, led me to the capital.

His Majesty, with the royal family and great officers of the Court, came
out to receive me, and they entertained me in a manner suited to the
generosity of so great a prince. I did not, however, mention my disgrace
with the Emperor of Lilliput, since I did not suppose that prince would
disclose the secret while I was out of his power. But in this, it soon
appeared, I was deceived.


CHAPTER V


Three days after my arrival, walking out of curiosity to the northeast
coast of the island, I observed at some distance in the sea something
that looked like a boat overturned. I pulled off my shoes and stockings,
and wading two or three hundred yards, I plainly saw it to be a real
boat, which I supposed might by some tempest have been driven from a
ship. I returned immediately to the city for help, and after a huge
amount of labor I managed to get my boat to the royal port of Blefuscu,
where a great crowd of people appeared, full of wonder at sight of so
prodigious a vessel. I told the Emperor that my good fortune had thrown
this boat in my way to carry me to some place whence I might return to
my native country, and begged his orders for materials to fit it up, and
leave to depart--which, after many kindly speeches, he was pleased to
grant.

Meanwhile the Emperor of Lilliput, uneasy at my long absence (but never
imagining that I had the least notice of his designs), sent a person of
rank to inform the Emperor of Blefuscu of my disgrace; this messenger
had orders to represent the great mercy of his master, who was content
to punish me with the loss of my eyes, and who expected that his brother
of Blefuscu would have me sent back to Lilliput, bound hand and foot,
to be punished as a traitor. The Emperor of Blefuscu answered with many
civil excuses. He said that as for sending me bound, his brother knew
it was impossible. Moreover, though I had taken away his fleet he was
grateful to me for many good offices I had done him in making the peace.
But that both their Majesties would soon be made easy; for I had found
a prodigious vessel on the shore, able to carry me on the sea, which
he had given orders to fit up; and he hoped in a few weeks both empires
would be free from me.

With this answer the messenger returned to Lilliput; and I (though the
monarch of Blefuscu secretly offered me his gracious protection if I
would continue in his service) hastened my departure, resolving never
more to put confidence in princes.

In about a month I was ready to take leave. The Emperor of Blefuscu,
with the Empress and the royal family, came out of the palace; and I lay
down on my face to kiss their hands, which they graciously gave me. His
Majesty presented me with fifty purses of sprugs (their greatest gold
coin) and his picture at full length, which I put immediately into one
of my gloves, to keep it from being hurt. Many other ceremonies took
place at my departure.

I stored the boat with meat and drink, and took six cows and two bulls
alive, with as many ewes and rams, intending to carry them into my own
country; and to feed them on board, I had a good bundle of hay and a bag
of corn. I would gladly have taken a dozen of the natives; but this was
a thing the Emperor would by no means permit, and besides a diligent
search into my pockets, his Majesty pledged my honor not to carry away
any of his subjects, though with their own consent and desire.

Having thus prepared all things as well as I was able, I set sail. When
I had made twenty-four leagues, by my reckoning, from the island of
Blefuscu, I saw a sail steering to the northeast. I hailed her, but
could get no answer; yet I found I gained upon her, for the wind
slackened; and in half an hour she spied me, and discharged a gun. I
came up with her between five and six in the evening, Sept. 26, 1701;
but my heart leaped within me to see her English colors. I put my cows
and sheep into my coat pockets, and got on board with all my little
cargo. The captain received me with kindness, and asked me to tell him
what place I came from last; but at my answer he thought I was raving.
However, I took my black cattle and sheep out of my pocket, which, after
great astonishment, clearly convinced him.

We arrived in England on the 13th of April, 1702. I stayed two months
with my wife and family; but my eager desire to see foreign countries
would suffer me to remain no longer. However, while in England I made
great profit by showing my cattle to persons of quality and others; and
before I began my second voyage I sold them for 600_l_. I left 1500_l_.
with my wife, and fixed her in a good house; then taking leave of her
and my boy and girl, with tears on both sides, I sailed on board the
"Adventure."(1)


(1) Swift.




THE PRINCESS ON THE GLASS HILL


Once upon a time there was a man who had a meadow which lay on the side
of a mountain, and in the meadow there was a barn in which he stored
hay. But there had not been much hay in the barn for the last two years,
for every St. John's eve, when the grass was in the height of its vigor,
it was all eaten clean up, just as if a whole flock of sheep had gnawed
it down to the ground during the night. This happened once, and it
happened twice, but then the man got tired of losing his crop, and
said to his sons--he had three of them, and the third was called
Cinderlad--that one of them must go and sleep in the barn on St. John's
night, for it was absurd to let the grass be eaten up again, blade and
stalk, as it had been the last two years, and the one who went to watch
must keep a sharp look-out, the man said.

The eldest was quite willing to go to the meadow; he would watch the
grass, he said, and he would do it so well that neither man, nor beast,
nor even the devil himself should have any of it. So when evening came
he went to the barn, and lay down to sleep, but when night was drawing
near there was such a rumbling and such an earthquake that the walls and
roof shook again, and the lad jumped up and took to his heels as fast as
he could, and never even looked back, and the barn remained empty that
year just as it had been for the last two.

Next St. John's eve the man again said that he could not go on in this
way, losing all the grass in the outlying field year after year, and
that one of his sons must just go there and watch it, and watch well
too. So the next oldest son was willing to show what he could do. He
went to the barn and lay down to sleep, as his brother had done; but
when night was drawing near there was a great rumbling, and then an
earthquake, which was even worse than that on the former St. John's
night, and when the youth heard it he was terrified, and went off,
running as if for a wager.

The year after, it was Cinderlad's turn, but when he made ready to go
the others laughed at him, and mocked him. "Well, you are just the right
one to watch the hay, you who have never learned anything but how to sit
among the ashes and bake yourself!" said they. Cinderlad, however, did
not trouble himself about what they said, but when evening drew near
rambled away to the outlying field. When he got there he went into the
barn and lay down, but in about an hour's time the rumbling and creaking
began, and it was frightful to hear it. "Well, if it gets no worse than
that, I can manage to stand it," thought Cinderlad. In a little time
the creaking began again, and the earth quaked so that all the hay flew
about the boy. "Oh! if it gets no worse than that I can manage to stand
it," thought Cinderlad. But then came a third rumbling, and a third
earthquake, so violent that the boy thought the walls and roof had
fallen down, but when that was over everything suddenly grew as still
as death around him. "I am pretty sure that it will come again," thought
Cinderlad; but no, it did not. Everything was quiet, and everything
stayed quiet, and when he had lain still a short time he heard something
that sounded as if a horse were standing chewing just outside the barn
door. He stole away to the door, which was ajar, to see what was there,
and a horse was standing eating. It was so big, and fat, and fine a
horse that Cinderlad had never seen one like it before, and a saddle
and bridle lay upon it, and a complete suit of armor for a knight, and
everything was of copper, and so bright that it shone again. "Ha, ha! it
is thou who eatest up our hay then," thought the boy; "but I will stop
that." So he made haste, and took out his steel for striking fire, and
threw it over the horse, and then it had no power to stir from the spot,
and became so tame that the boy could do what he liked with it. So he
mounted it and rode away to a place which no one knew of but himself,
and there he tied it up. When he went home again his brothers laughed
and asked how he had got on.

"You didn't lie long in the barn, if even you have been so far as the
field!" said they.

"I lay in the barn till the sun rose, but I saw nothing and heard
nothing, not I," said the boy. "God knows what there was to make you two
so frightened."

"Well, we shall soon see whether you have watched the meadow or not,"
answered the brothers, but when they got there the grass was all
standing just as long and as thick as it had been the night before.

The next St. John's eve it was the same thing, once again: neither of
the two brothers dared to go to the outlying field to watch the crop,
but Cinderlad went, and everything happened exactly the same as on the
previous St. John's eve: first there was a rumbling and an earthquake,
and then there was another, and then a third: but all three earthquakes
were much, very much more violent than they had been the year before.
Then everything became still as death again, and the boy heard something
chewing outside the barn door, so he stole as softly as he could to
the door, which was slightly ajar, and again there was a horse standing
close by the wall of the house, eating and chewing, and it was far
larger and fatter than the first horse, and it had a saddle on its back,
and a bridle was on it too, and a full suit of armor for a knight, all
of bright silver, and as beautiful as anyone could wish to see. "Ho,
ho!" thought the boy, "is it thou who eatest up our hay in the night?
but I will put a stop to that." So he took out his steel for striking
fire, and threw it over the horse's mane, and the beast stood there as
quiet as a lamb. Then the boy rode this horse, too, away to the place
where he kept the other, and then went home again.

"I suppose you will tell us that you have watched well again this time,"
said the brothers.

"Well, so I have," said Cinderlad. So they went there again, and there
the grass was, standing as high and as thick as it had been before, but
that did not make them any kinder to Cinderlad.

When the third St. John's night came neither of the two elder brothers
dared to lie in the outlying barn to watch the grass, for they had been
so heartily frightened the night that they had slept there that they
could not get over it, but Cinderlad dared to go, and everything
happened just the same as on the two former nights. There were three
earthquakes, each worse than the other, and the last flung the boy from
one wall of the barn to the other, but then everything suddenly
became still as death. When he had lain quietly a short time, he heard
something chewing outside the barn door; then he once more stole to the
door, which was slightly ajar, and behold, a horse was standing just
outside it, which was much larger and fatter than the two others he had
caught. "Ho, ho! it is thou, then, who art eating up our hay this time,"
thought the boy; "but I will put a stop to that." So he pulled out his
steel for striking fire, and threw it over the horse, and it stood as
still as if it had been nailed to the field, and the boy could do just
what he liked with it. Then he mounted it and rode away to the place
where he had the two others, and then he went home again. Then the two
brothers mocked him just as they had done before, and told him that they
could see that he must have watched the grass very carefully that night,
for he looked just as if he were walking in his sleep; but Cinderlad did
not trouble himself about that, but just bade them go to the field and
see. They did go, and this time too the grass was standing, looking as
fine and as thick as ever.

The King of the country in which Cinderlad's father dwelt had a daughter
whom he would give to no one who could not ride up to the top of the
glass hill, for there was a high, high hill of glass, slippery as ice,
and it was close to the King's palace. Upon the very top of this the
King's daughter was to sit with three gold apples in her lap, and the
man who could ride up and take the three golden apples should marry her,
and have half the kingdom. The King had this proclaimed in every church
in the whole kingdom, and in many other kingdoms too. The Princess was
very beautiful, and all who saw her fell violently in love with her,
even in spite of themselves. So it is needless to say that all the
princes and knights were eager to win her, and half the kingdom besides,
and that for this cause they came riding thither from the very end of
the world, dressed so splendidly that their raiments gleamed in the
sunshine, and riding on horses which seemed to dance as they went, and
there was not one of these princes who did not think that he was sure to
win the Princess.

When the day appointed by the King had come, there was such a host of
knights and princes under the glass hill that they seemed to swarm, and
everyone who could walk or even creep was there too, to see who won the
King's daughter. Cinderlad's two brothers were there too, but they would
not hear of letting him go with them, for he was so dirty and black
with sleeping and grubbing among the ashes that they said everyone would
laugh at them if they were seen in the company of such an oaf.

"Well, then, I will go all alone by myself," said Cinderlad.

When the two brothers got to the glass hill, all the princes and knights
were trying to ride up it, and their horses were in a foam; but it was
all in vain, for no sooner did the horses set foot upon the hill than
down they slipped, and there was not one which could get even so much as
a couple of yards up. Nor was that strange, for the hill was as smooth
as a glass window-pane, and as steep as the side of a house. But they
were all eager to win the King's daughter and half the kingdom, so they
rode and they slipped, and thus it went on. At length all the horses
were so tired that they could do no more, and so hot that the foam
dropped from them and the riders were forced to give up the attempt. The
King was just thinking that he would cause it to be proclaimed that the
riding should begin afresh on the following day, when perhaps it might
go better, when suddenly a knight came riding up on so fine a horse that
no one had ever seen the like of it before, and the knight had armor of
copper, and his bridle was of copper too, and all his accoutrements were
so bright that they shone again. The other knights all called out to him
that he might just as well spare himself the trouble of trying to ride
up the glass hill, for it was of no use to try; but he did not heed
them, and rode straight off to it, and went up as if it were nothing at
all. Thus he rode for a long way--it may have been a third part of the
way up--but when he had got so far he turned his horse round and rode
down again. But the Princess thought that she had never yet seen so
handsome a knight, and while he was riding up she was sitting thinking,
"Oh! how I hope he may be able to come up to the top!" And when she saw
that he was turning his horse back she threw one of the golden apples
down after him, and it rolled into his shoe. But when he had come down
from off the hill he rode away, and that so fast that no one knew what
had become of him.

So all the princes and knights were bidden to present themselves before
the King that night, so that he who had ridden so far up the glass hill
might show the golden apple which the King's daughter had thrown down.
But no one had anything to show. One knight presented himself after the
other, and none could show the apple.

At night, too, Cinderlad's brothers came home again and had a long story
to tell about riding up the glass hill. At first, they said, there was
not one who was able to get even so much as one step up, but then came
a knight who had armor of copper, and a bridle of copper, and his armor
and trappings were so bright that they shone to a great distance, and it
was something like a sight to see him riding. He rode one-third of the
way up the glass hill, and he could easily have ridden the whole of it
if he had liked; but he had turned back, for he had made up his mind
that that was enough for once. "Oh! I should have liked to see him too,
that I should," said Cinderlad, who was as usual sitting by the chimney
among the cinders. "You, indeed!" said the brothers, "you look as if you
were fit to be among such great lords, nasty beast that you are to sit
there!"

Next day the brothers were for setting out again, and this time too
Cinderlad begged them to let him go with them and see who rode; but no,
they said he was not fit to do that, for he was much too ugly and dirty.
"Well, well, then I will go all alone by myself," said Cinderlad. So the
brothers went to the glass hill, and all the princes and knights began
to ride again, and this time they had taken care to roughen the shoes of
their horses; but that did not help them: they rode and they slipped as
they had done the day before, and not one of them could get even so far
as a yard up the hill. When they had tired out their horses, so that
they could do no more, they again had to stop altogether. But just as
the King was thinking that it would be well to proclaim that the riding
should take place next day for the last time, so that they might have
one more chance, he suddenly bethought himself that it would be well to
wait a little longer to see if the knight in copper armor would come on
this day too. But nothing was to be seen of him. Just as they were still
looking for him, however, came a knight riding on a steed that was much,
much finer than that which the knight in copper armor had ridden, and
this knight had silver armor and a silver saddle and bridle, and all
were so bright that they shone and glistened when he was a long way off.
Again the other knights called to him, and said that he might just as
well give up the attempt to ride up the glass hill, for it was useless
to try; but the knight paid no heed to that, but rode straight away
to the glass hill, and went still farther up than the knight in copper
armor had gone; but when he had ridden two-thirds of the way up he
turned his horse around, and rode down again. The Princess liked this
knight still better than she had liked the other, and sat longing that
he might be able to get up above, and when she saw him turning back she
threw the second apple after him, and it rolled into his shoe, and as
soon as he had got down the glass hill he rode away so fast that no one
could see what had become of him.

In the evening, when everyone was to appear before the King and
Princess, in order that he who had the golden apple might show it, one
knight went in after the other, but none of them had a golden apple to
show.

At night the two brothers went home as they had done the night before,
and told how things had gone, and how everyone had ridden, but no one
had been able to get up the hill. "But last of all," they said, "came
one in silver armor, and he had a silver bridle on his horse, and a
silver saddle, and oh, but he could ride! He took his horse two-thirds
of the way up the hill, but then he turned back. He was a fine fellow,"
said the brothers, "and the Princess threw the second golden apple to
him!"

"Oh, how I should have liked to see him too!" said Cinderlad.

"Oh, indeed! He was a little brighter than the ashes that you sit
grubbing among, you dirty black creature!" said the brothers.

On the third day everything went just as on the former days. Cinderlad
wanted to go with them to look at the riding, but the two brothers would
not have him in their company, and when they got to the glass hill there
was no one who could ride even so far as a yard up it, and everyone
waited for the knight in silver armor, but he was neither to be seen nor
heard of. At last, after a long time, came a knight riding upon a horse
that was such a fine one, its equal had never yet been seen. The knight
had golden armor, and the horse a golden saddle and bridle, and these
were all so bright that they shone and dazzled everyone, even while the
knight was still at a great distance. The other princes and knights were
not able even to call to tell him how useless it was to try to ascend
the hill, so amazed were they at sight of his magnificence. He rode
straight away to the glass hill, and galloped up it as if it were no
hill at all, so that the Princess had not even time to wish that he
might get up the whole way. As soon as he had ridden to the top, he took
the third golden apple from the lap of the Princess and then turned his
horse about and rode down again, and vanished from their sight before
anyone was able to say a word to him.

When the two brothers came home again at night they had much to tell of
how the riding had gone off that day, and at last they told about the
knight in the golden armor too. "He was a fine fellow, that was! Such
another splendid knight is not to be found on earth!" said the brothers.

"Oh, how I should have liked to see him too!" said Cinderlad.

"Well, he shone nearly as brightly as the coal-heaps that thou art
always lying raking among, dirty black creature that thou art!" said the
brothers.

Next day all the knights and princes were to appear before the King and
Princess--it had been too late for them to do it the night before--in
order that he who had the golden apple might produce it. They all went
in turn, first princes, and then knights, but none of them had a golden
apple.

"But somebody must have it," said the King, "for with our own eyes we
all saw a man ride up and take it." So he commanded that everyone in the
kingdom should come to the palace, and see if he could show the apple.
And one after the other they all came, but no one had the golden apple,
and after a long, long time Cinderlad's two brothers came likewise. They
were the last of all, so the King inquired of them if there was no one
else in the kingdom left to come.

"Oh! yes, we have a brother," said the two, "but he never got the golden
apple! He never left the cinder-heap on any of the three days."

"Never mind that," said the King; "as everyone else has come to the
palace, let him come too."

So Cinderlad was forced to go to the King's palace.

"Hast thou the golden apple?" asked the King.

"Yes, here is the first, and here is the second, and here is the third,
too," said Cinderlad, and he took all three apples out of his pocket,
and with that drew off his sooty rags, and appeared there before them in
his bright golden armor, which gleamed as he stood.

"Thou shalt have my daughter, and the half of my kingdom, and thou hast
well earned both!" said the King. So there was a wedding, and Cinderlad
got the King's daughter, and everyone made merry at the wedding, for all
of them could make merry, though they could not ride up the glass hill,
and if they have not left off their merry-making they must be at it
still.(1)


(1) Asbjornsen and Moe.




THE STORY OF PRINCE AHMED AND THE FAIRY PARIBANOU


There was a sultan, who had three sons and a niece. The eldest of the
Princes was called Houssain, the second Ali, the youngest Ahmed, and the
Princess, his niece, Nouronnihar.

The Princess Nouronnihar was the daughter of the younger brother of the
Sultan, who died, and left the Princess very young. The Sultan took upon
himself the care of his daughter's education, and brought her up in his
palace with the three Princes, proposing to marry her when she arrived
at a proper age, and to contract an alliance with some neighboring
prince by that means. But when he perceived that the three Princes, his
sons, loved her passionately, he thought more seriously on that affair.
He was very much concerned; the difficulty he foresaw was to make them
agree, and that the two youngest should consent to yield her up to their
elder brother. As he found them positively obstinate, he sent for them
all together, and said to them: "Children, since for your good and
quiet I have not been able to persuade you no longer to aspire to
the Princess, your cousin, I think it would not be amiss if every one
traveled separately into different countries, so that you might not
meet each other. And, as you know I am very curious, and delight in
everything that's singular, I promise my niece in marriage to him that
shall bring me the most extraordinary rarity; and for the purchase of
the rarity you shall go in search after, and the expense of traveling, I
will give you every one a sum of money."

As the three Princes were always submissive and obedient to the Sultan's
will, and each flattered himself fortune might prove favorable to him,
they all consented to it. The Sultan paid them the money he promised
them; and that very day they gave orders for the preparations for their
travels, and took their leave of the Sultan, that they might be the more
ready to go the next morning. Accordingly they all set out at the same
gate of the city, each dressed like a merchant, attended by an officer
of confidence dressed like a slave, and all well mounted and equipped.
They went the first day's journey together, and lay all at an inn, where
the road was divided into three different tracts. At night, when they
were at supper together, they all agreed to travel for a year, and to
meet at that inn; and that the first that came should wait for the rest;
that, as they had all three taken their leave together of the Sultan,
they might all return together. The next morning by break of day, after
they had embraced and wished each other good success, they mounted their
horses and took each a different road.

Prince Houssain, the eldest brother, arrived at Bisnagar, the capital
of the kingdom of that name, and the residence of its king. He went and
lodged at a khan appointed for foreign merchants; and, having learned
that there were four principal divisions where merchants of all sorts
sold their commodities, and kept shops, and in the midst of which
stood the castle, or rather the King's palace, he went to one of these
divisions the next day.

Prince Houssain could not view this division without admiration. It was
large, and divided into several streets, all vaulted and shaded from the
sun, and yet very light too. The shops were all of a size, and all
that dealt in the same sort of goods lived in one street; as also the
handicrafts-men, who kept their shops in the smaller streets.

The multitude of shops, stocked with all sorts of merchandise, as the
finest linens from several parts of India, some painted in the most
lively colors, and representing beasts, trees, and flowers; silks and
brocades from Persia, China, and other places, porcelain both from Japan
and China, and tapestries, surprised him so much that he knew not how to
believe his own eyes; but when he came to the goldsmiths and jewelers he
was in a kind of ecstacy to behold such prodigious quantities of wrought
gold and silver, and was dazzled by the lustre of the pearls, diamonds,
rubies, emeralds, and other jewels exposed to sale.

Another thing Prince Houssain particularly admired was the great number
of rose-sellers who crowded the streets; for the Indians are so great
lovers of that flower that no one will stir without a nosegay in his
hand or a garland on his head; and the merchants keep them in pots in
their shops, that the air is perfectly perfumed.

After Prince Houssain had run through that division, street by street,
his thoughts fully employed on the riches he had seen, he was very much
tired, which a merchant perceiving, civilly invited him to sit down in
his shop, and he accepted; but had not been sat down long before he
saw a crier pass by with a piece of tapestry on his arm, about six feet
square, and cried at thirty purses. The Prince called to the crier,
and asked to see the tapestry, which seemed to him to be valued at an
exorbitant price, not only for the size of it, but the meanness of the
stuff; when he had examined it well, he told the crier that he could
not comprehend how so small a piece of tapestry, and of so indifferent
appearance, could be set at so high a price.

The crier, who took him for a merchant, replied: "If this price seems
so extravagant to you, your amazement will be greater when I tell you I
have orders to raise it to forty purses, and not to part with it under."
"Certainly," answered Prince Houssain, "it must have something very
extraordinary in it, which I know nothing of." "You have guessed it,
sir," replied the crier, "and will own it when you come to know that
whoever sits on this piece of tapestry may be transported in an instant
wherever he desires to be, without being stopped by any obstacle."

At this discourse of the crier the Prince of the Indies, considering
that the principal motive of his travel was to carry the Sultan, his
father, home some singular rarity, thought that he could not meet with
any which could give him more satisfaction. "If the tapestry," said he
to the crier, "has the virtue you assign it, I shall not think forty
purses too much, but shall make you a present besides." "Sir," replied
the crier, "I have told you the truth; and it is an easy matter to
convince you of it, as soon as you have made the bargain for forty
purses, on condition I show you the experiment. But, as I suppose you
have not so much about you, and to receive them I must go with you to
your khan, where you lodge, with the leave of the master of the shop, we
will go into the back shop, and I will spread the tapestry; and when we
have both sat down, and you have formed the wish to be transported into
your apartment of the khan, if we are not transported thither it shall
be no bargain, and you shall be at your liberty. As to your present,
though I am paid for my trouble by the seller, I shall receive it as a
favor, and be very much obliged to you, and thankful."

On the credit of the crier, the Prince accepted the conditions, and
concluded the bargain; and, having got the master's leave, they went
into his back shop; they both sat down on it, and as soon as the Prince
formed his wish to be transported into his apartment at the khan he
presently found himself and the crier there; and, as he wanted not a
more sufficient proof of the virtue of the tapestry, he counted the
crier out forty pieces of gold, and gave him twenty pieces for himself.

In this manner Prince Houssain became the possessor of the tapestry,
and was overjoyed that at his arrival at Bisnagar he had found so rare
a piece, which he never disputed would gain him the hand of Nouronnihar.
In short, he looked upon it as an impossible thing for the Princes his
younger brothers to meet with anything to be compared with it. It was
in his power, by sitting on his tapestry, to be at the place of meeting
that very day; but, as he was obliged to stay there for his brothers, as
they had agreed, and as he was curious to see the King of Bisnagar and
his Court, and to inform himself of the strength, laws, customs, and
religion of the kingdom, he chose to make a longer abode there, and to
spend some months in satisfying his curiosity.

Prince Houssain might have made a longer abode in the kingdom and
Court of Bisnagar, but he was so eager to be nearer the Princess that,
spreading the tapestry, he and the officer he had brought with him sat
down, and as soon as he had formed his wish were transported to the inn
at which he and his brothers were to meet, and where he passed for a
merchant till they came.

Prince Ali, Prince Houssain's second brother, who designed to travel
into Persia, took the road, having three days after he parted with
his brothers joined a caravan, and after four days' travel arrived at
Schiraz, which was the capital of the kingdom of Persia. Here he passed
for a jeweler.

The next morning Prince Ali, who traveled only for his pleasure, and
had brought nothing but just necessaries along with him, after he had
dressed himself, took a walk into that part of the town which they at
Schiraz called the bezestein.

Among all the criers who passed backward and forward with several sorts
of goods, offering to sell them, he was not a little surprised to see
one who held an ivory telescope in his hand of about a foot in length
and the thickness of a man's thumb, and cried it at thirty purses. At
first he thought the crier mad, and to inform himself went to a shop,
and said to the merchant, who stood at the door: "Pray, sir, is not that
man" (pointing to the crier who cried the ivory perspective glass at
thirty purses) "mad? If he is not, I am very much deceived."

"Indeed, sir," answered the merchant, "he was in his right senses
yesterday; I can assure you he is one of the ablest criers we have, and
the most employed of any when anything valuable is to be sold. And if he
cries the ivory perspective glass at thirty purses it must be worth as
much or more, on some account or other. He will come by presently, and
we will call him, and you shall be satisfied; in the meantime sit down
on my sofa, and rest yourself."

Prince Ali accepted the merchant's obliging offer, and presently
afterward the crier passed by. The merchant called him by his name, and,
pointing to the Prince, said to him: "Tell that gentleman, who asked
me if you were in your right senses, what you mean by crying that ivory
perspective glass, which seems not to be worth much, at thirty purses.
I should be very much amazed myself if I did not know you." The crier,
addressing himself to Prince Ali, said: "Sir, you are not the only
person that takes me for a madman on account of this perspective glass.
You shall judge yourself whether I am or no, when I have told you its
property and I hope you will value it at as high a price as those I have
showed it to already, who had as bad an opinion of me as you.

"First, sir," pursued the crier, presenting the ivory pipe to the
Prince, "observe that this pipe is furnished with a glass at both ends;
and consider that by looking through one of them you see whatever object
you wish to behold." "I am," said the Prince, "ready to make you all
imaginable reparation for the scandal I have thrown on you if you will
make the truth of what you advance appear," and as he had the ivory pipe
in his hand, after he had looked at the two glasses he said: "Show me
at which of these ends I must look that I may be satisfied." The crier
presently showed him, and he looked through, wishing at the same time to
see the Sultan his father, whom he immediately beheld in perfect health,
set on his throne, in the midst of his council. Afterward, as there was
nothing in the world so dear to him, after the Sultan, as the Princess
Nouronnihar, he wished to see her; and saw her at her toilet laughing,
and in a pleasant humor, with her women about her.

Prince Ali wanted no other proof to be persuaded that this perspective
glass was the most valuable thing in the world, and believed that if
he should neglect to purchase it he should never meet again with such
another rarity. He therefore took the crier with him to the khan where
he lodged, and counted him out the money, and received the perspective
glass.

Prince Ali was overjoyed at his bargain, and persuaded himself that,
as his brothers would not be able to meet with anything so rare and
admirable, the Princess Nouronnihar would be the recompense of his
fatigue and trouble; that he thought of nothing but visiting the Court
of Persia incognito, and seeing whatever was curious in Schiraz and
thereabouts, till the caravan with which he came returned back to the
Indies. As soon as the caravan was ready to set out, the Prince joined
them, and arrived happily without any accident or trouble, otherwise
than the length of the journey and fatigue of traveling, at the place of
rendezvous, where he found Prince Houssain, and both waited for Prince
Ahmed.

Prince Ahmed, who took the road of Samarcand, the next day after his
arrival there went, as his brothers had done, into the bezestein, where
he had not walked long but heard a crier, who had an artificial apple
in his hand, cry it at five and thirty purses; upon which he stopped the
crier, and said to him: "Let me see that apple, and tell me what virtue
and extraordinary properties it has, to be valued at so high a rate."
"Sir," said the crier, giving it into his hand, "if you look at the
outside of this apple, it is very worthless, but if you consider its
properties, virtues, and the great use and benefit it is to mankind, you
will say it is no price for it, and that he who possesses it is master
of a great treasure. In short, it cures all sick persons of the most
mortal diseases; and if the patient is dying it will recover him
immediately and restore him to perfect health; and this is done after
the easiest manner in the world, which is by the patient's smelling the
apple."

"If I may believe you," replied Prince Ahmed, "the virtues of this apple
are wonderful, and it is invaluable; but what ground have I, for all you
tell me, to be persuaded of the truth of this matter?" "Sir," replied
the crier, "the thing is known and averred by the whole city of
Samarcand; but, without going any further, ask all these merchants you
see here, and hear what they say. You will find several of them will
tell you they had not been alive this day if they had not made use of
this excellent remedy. And, that you may better comprehend what it is,
I must tell you it is the fruit of the study and experiments of a
celebrated philosopher of this city, who applied himself all his
lifetime to the study and knowledge of the virtues of plants and
minerals, and at last attained to this composition, by which he
performed such surprising cures in this town as will never be forgot,
but died suddenly himself, before he could apply his sovereign remedy,
and left his wife and a great many young children behind him, in very
indifferent circumstances, who, to support her family and provide for
her children, is resolved to sell it."

While the crier informed Prince Ahmed of the virtues of the artificial
apple, a great many persons came about them and confirmed what he said;
and one among the rest said he had a friend dangerously ill, whose life
was despaired of; and that was a favorable opportunity to show Prince
Ahmed the experiment. Upon which Prince Ahmed told the crier he would
give him forty purses if he cured the sick person.

The crier, who had orders to sell it at that price, said to Prince
Ahmed: "Come, sir, let us go and make the experiment, and the apple
shall be yours; and I can assure you that it will always have the
desired effect." In short, the experiment succeeded, and the Prince,
after he had counted out to the crier forty purses, and he had delivered
the apple to him, waited patiently for the first caravan that should
return to the Indies, and arrived in perfect health at the inn where the
Princes Houssain and Ali waited for him.

When the Princes met they showed each other their treasures, and
immediately saw through the glass that the Princess was dying. They then
sat down on the carpet, wished themselves with her, and were there in a
moment.

Prince Ahmed no sooner perceived himself in Nouronnihar's chamber than
he rose off the tapestry, as did also the other two Princes, and went
to the bedside, and put the apple under her nose; some moments after the
Princess opened her eyes, and turned her head from one side to another,
looking at the persons who stood about her; and then rose up in the bed,
and asked to be dressed, just as if she had waked out of a sound sleep.
Her women having presently informed her, in a manner that showed their
joy, that she was obliged to the three Princes for the sudden recovery
of her health, and particularly to Prince Ahmed, she immediately
expressed her joy to see them, and thanked them all together, and
afterward Prince Ahmed in particular.

While the Princess was dressing the Princes went to throw themselves at
the Sultan their father's feet, and pay their respects to him. But when
they came before him they found he had been informed of their arrival by
the chief of the Princess's eunuchs, and by what means the Princess had
been perfectly cured. The Sultan received and embraced them with the
greatest joy, both for their return and the recovery of the Princess his
niece, whom he loved as well as if she had been his own daughter, and
who had been given over by the physicians. After the usual ceremonies
and compliments the Princes presented each his rarity: Prince Houssain
his tapestry, which he had taken care not to leave behind him in the
Princess's chamber; Prince Ali his ivory perspective glass, and Prince
Ahmed his artificial apple; and after each had commended their present,
when they put it into the Sultan's hands, they begged of him to
pronounce their fate, and declare to which of them he would give the
Princess Nouronnihar for a wife, according to his promise.

The Sultan of the Indies, having heard, without interrupting them, all
that the Princes could represent further about their rarities, and
being well informed of what had happened in relation to the Princess
Nouronnihar's cure, remained some time silent, as if he were thinking
on what answer he should make. At last he broke the silence, and said
to them: "I would declare for one of you children with a great deal of
pleasure if I could do it with justice; but consider whether I can do it
or no. 'Tis true, Prince Ahmed, the Princess my niece is obliged to
your artificial apple for her cure; but I must ask you whether or no
you could have been so serviceable to her if you had not known by Prince
Ali's perspective glass the danger she was in, and if Prince Houssain's
tapestry had not brought you so soon. Your perspective glass, Prince
Ali, informed you and your brothers that you were like to lose the
Princess your cousin, and there you must own a great obligation.

"You must also grant that that knowledge would have been of no service
without the artificial apple and the tapestry. And lastly, Prince
Houssain, the Princess would be very ungrateful if she should not
show her acknowledgment of the service of your tapestry, which was so
necessary a means toward her cure. But consider, it would have been of
little use if you had not been acquainted with the Princess's illness
by Prince Ali's glass, and Prince Ahmed had not applied his artificial
apple. Therefore, as neither tapestry, ivory perspective glass, nor
artificial apple have the least preference one before the other, but, on
the contrary, there's a perfect equality, I cannot grant the Princess to
any one of you; and the only fruit you have reaped from your travels is
the glory of having equally contributed to restore her health.

"If all this be true," added the Sultan, "you see that I must have
recourse to other means to determine certainly in the choice I ought
to make among you; and that, as there is time enough between this and
night, I'll do it to-day. Go and get each of you a bow and arrow, and
repair to the great plain, where they exercise horses. I'll soon come to
you, and declare I will give the Princess Nouronnihar to him that shoots
the farthest."

The three Princes had nothing to say against the decision of the Sultan.
When they were out of his presence they each provided themselves with a
bow and arrow, which they delivered to one of their officers, and went
to the plain appointed, followed by a great concourse of people.

The Sultan did not make them wait long for him, and as soon as he
arrived Prince Houssain, as the eldest, took his bow and arrow and shot
first; Prince Ali shot next, and much beyond him; and Prince Ahmed last
of all, but it so happened that nobody could see where his arrow fell;
and, notwithstanding all the diligence that was used by himself and
everybody else, it was not to be found far or near. And though it was
believed that he shot the farthest, and that he therefore deserved the
Princess Nouronnihar, it was, however, necessary that his arrow
should be found to make the matter more evident and certain; and,
notwithstanding his remonstrance, the Sultan judged in favor of Prince
Ali, and gave orders for preparations to be made for the wedding, which
was celebrated a few days after with great magnificence.

Prince Houssain would not honor the feast with his presence. In short,
his grief was so violent and insupportable that he left the Court, and
renounced all right of succession to the crown, to turn hermit.

Prince Ahmed, too, did not come to Prince Ali's and the Princess
Nouronnihar's wedding any more than his brother Houssain, but did not
renounce the world as he had done. But, as he could not imagine what had
become of his arrow, he stole away from his attendants and resolved to
search after it, that he might not have anything to reproach himself
with. With this intent he went to the place where the Princes Houssain's
and Ali's were gathered up, and, going straight forward from there,
looking carefully on both sides of him, he went so far that at last
he began to think his labor was all in vain; but yet he could not help
going forward till he came to some steep craggy rocks, which were
bounds to his journey, and were situated in a barren country, about four
leagues distant from where he set out.


II


When Prince Ahmed came pretty nigh to these rocks he perceived an arrow,
which he gathered up, looked earnestly at it, and was in the greatest
astonishment to find it was the same he shot away. "Certainly," said he
to himself, "neither I nor any man living could shoot an arrow so far,"
and, finding it laid flat, not sticking into the ground, he judged that
it rebounded against the rock. "There must be some mystery in this,"
said he to himself again, "and it may be advantageous to me. Perhaps
fortune, to make me amends for depriving me of what I thought the
greatest happiness, may have reserved a greater blessing for my
comfort."

As these rocks were full of caves and some of those caves were deep, the
Prince entered into one, and, looking about, cast his eyes on an iron
door, which seemed to have no lock, but he feared it was fastened.
However, thrusting against it, it opened, and discovered an easy
descent, but no steps, which he walked down with his arrow in his
hand. At first he thought he was going into a dark, obscure place, but
presently a quite different light succeeded that which he came out of,
and, entering into a large, spacious place, at about fifty or sixty
paces distant, he perceived a magnificent palace, which he had not then
time enough to look at. At the same time a lady of majestic port and air
advanced as far as the porch, attended by a large troop of ladies, so
finely dressed and beautiful that it was difficult to distinguish which
was the mistress.

As soon as Prince Ahmed perceived the lady, he made all imaginable
haste to go and pay his respects; and the lady, on her part, seeing him
coming, prevented him from addressing his discourse to her first, but
said to him: "Come nearer, Prince Ahmed, you are welcome."

It was no small surprise to the Prince to hear himself named in a place
he had never heard of, though so nigh to his father's capital, and he
could not comprehend how he should be known to a lady who was a stranger
to him. At last he returned the lady's compliment by throwing himself at
her feet, and, rising up again, said to her:

"Madam, I return you a thousand thanks for the assurance you give me of
a welcome to a place where I believed my imprudent curiosity had made
me penetrate too far. But, madam, may I, without being guilty of ill
manners, dare to ask you by what adventure you know me? and how you, who
live in the same neighborhood with me, should be so great a stranger to
me?"

"Prince," said the lady, "let us go into the hall, there I will gratify
you in your request."

After these words the lady led Prince Ahmed into the hall. Then she sat
down on a sofa, and when the Prince by her entreaty had done the same
she said: "You are surprised, you say, that I should know you and not be
known by you, but you will be no longer surprised when I inform you who
I am. You are undoubtedly sensible that your religion teaches you to
believe that the world is inhabited by genies as well as men. I am the
daughter of one of the most powerful and distinguished genies, and my
name is Paribanou. The only thing that I have to add is, that you seemed
to me worthy of a more happy fate than that of possessing the Princess
Nouronnihar; and, that you might attain to it, I was present when you
drew your arrow, and foresaw it would not go beyond Prince Houssain's.
I took it in the air, and gave it the necessary motion to strike against
the rocks near which you found it, and I tell you that it lies in your
power to make use of the favorable opportunity which presents itself to
make you happy."

As the Fairy Paribanou pronounced these last words with a different
tone, and looked, at the same time, tenderly upon Prince Ahmed, with
a modest blush on her cheeks, it was no hard matter for the Prince to
comprehend what happiness she meant. He presently considered that the
Princess Nouronnihar could never be his and that the Fairy Paribanou
excelled her infinitely in beauty, agreeableness, wit, and, as much
as he could conjecture by the magnificence of the palace, in immense
riches. He blessed the moment that he thought of seeking after his arrow
a second time, and, yielding to his love, "Madam," replied he, "should
I all my life have the happiness of being your slave, and the admirer
of the many charms which ravish my soul, I should think myself the most
blessed of men. Pardon in me the boldness which inspires me to ask this
favor, and don't refuse to admit me into your Court, a prince who is
entirely devoted to you."

"Prince," answered the Fairy, "will you not pledge your faith to me,
as well as I give mine to you?" "Yes, madam," replied the Prince, in an
ecstacy of joy; "what can I do better, and with greater pleasure?
Yes, my sultaness, my queen, I'll give you my heart without the least
reserve." "Then," answered the Fairy, "you are my husband, and I am
your wife. But, as I suppose," pursued she, "that you have eaten nothing
to-day, a slight repast shall be served up for you, while preparations
are making for our wedding feast at night, and then I will show you the
apartments of my palace, and you shall judge if this hall is not the
meanest part of it."

Some of the Fairy's women, who came into the hall with them, and guessed
her intentions, went immediately out, and returned presently with some
excellent meats and wines.

When Prince Ahmed had ate and drunk as much as he cared for, the Fairy
Paribanou carried him through all the apartments, where he saw diamonds,
rubies, emeralds and all sorts of fine jewels, intermixed with pearls,
agate, jasper, porphyry, and all sorts of the most precious marbles.
But, not to mention the richness of the furniture, which was
inestimable, there was such a profuseness throughout that the Prince,
instead of ever having seen anything like it, owned that he could not
have imagined that there was anything in the world that could come up to
it. "Prince," said the Fairy, "if you admire my palace so much, which,
indeed, is very beautiful, what would you say to the palaces of the
chief of our genies, which are much more beautiful, spacious, and
magnificent? I could also charm you with my gardens, but we will let
that alone till another time. Night draws near, and it will be time to
go to supper."

The next hall which the Fairy led the Prince into, and where the cloth
was laid for the feast, was the last apartment the Prince had not seen,
and not in the least inferior to the others. At his entrance into it
he admired the infinite number of sconces of wax candles perfumed with
amber, the multitude of which, instead of being confused, were placed
with so just a symmetry as formed an agreeable and pleasant sight. A
large side table was set out with all sorts of gold plate, so finely
wrought that the workmanship was much more valuable than the weight of
the gold. Several choruses of beautiful women richly dressed, and whose
voices were ravishing, began a concert, accompanied with all sorts of
the most harmonious instruments; and when they were set down at table
the Fairy Paribanou took care to help Prince Ahmed to the most delicate
meats, which she named as she invited him to eat of them, and which
the Prince found to be so exquisitely nice that he commended them with
exaggeration, and said that the entertainment far surpassed those of
man. He found also the same excellence in the wines, which neither he
nor the Fairy tasted of till the dessert was served up, which consisted
of the choicest sweetmeats and fruits.

The wedding feast was continued the next day, or, rather, the days
following the celebration were a continual feast.

At the end of six months Prince Ahmed, who always loved and honored the
Sultan his father, conceived a great desire to know how he was, and
that desire could not be satisfied without his going to see; he told the
Fairy of it, and desired she would give him leave.

"Prince," said she, "go when you please. But first, don't take it amiss
that I give you some advice how you shall behave yourself where you are
going. First, I don't think it proper for you to tell the Sultan your
father of our marriage, nor of my quality, nor the place where you have
been. Beg of him to be satisfied in knowing you are happy, and desire
no more; and let him know that the sole end of your visit is to make him
easy, and inform him of your fate."

She appointed twenty gentlemen, well mounted and equipped, to attend
him. When all was ready Prince Ahmed took his leave of the Fairy,
embraced her, and renewed his promise to return soon. Then his horse,
which was most finely caparisoned, and was as beautiful a creature as
any in the Sultan of Indies' stables, was led to him, and he mounted him
with an extraordinary grace; and, after he had bid her a last adieu, set
forward on his journey.

As it was not a great way to his father's capital, Prince Ahmed soon
arrived there. The people, glad to see him again, received him with
acclamations of joy, and followed him in crowds to the Sultan's
apartment. The Sultan received and embraced him with great joy,
complaining at the same time, with a fatherly tenderness, of the
affliction his long absence had been to him, which he said was the more
grievous for that, fortune having decided in favor of Prince Ali his
brother, he was afraid he might have committed some rash action.

The Prince told a story of his adventures without speaking of the Fairy,
whom he said that he must not mention, and ended: "The only favor I
ask of your Majesty is to give me leave to come often and pay you my
respects, and to know how you do."

"Son," answered the Sultan of the Indies, "I cannot refuse you the leave
you ask me; but I should much rather you would resolve to stay with me;
at least tell me where I may send to you if you should fail to come, or
when I may think your presence necessary." "Sir," replied Prince Ahmed,
"what your Majesty asks of me is part of the mystery I spoke to your
Majesty of. I beg of you to give me leave to remain silent on this head,
for I shall come so frequently that I am afraid that I shall sooner be
thought troublesome than be accused of negligence in my duty."

The Sultan of the Indies pressed Prince Ahmed no more, but said to him:
"Son, I penetrate no farther into your secrets, but leave you at your
liberty; but can tell you that you could not do me a greater pleasure
than to come, and by your presence restore to me the joy I have not
felt this long time, and that you shall always be welcome when you come,
without interrupting your business or pleasure."

Prince Ahmed stayed but three days at the Sultan his father's Court, and
the fourth returned to the Fairy Paribanou, who did not expect him so
soon.

A month after Prince Ahmed's return from paying a visit to his father,
as the Fairy Paribanou had observed that the Prince, since the time that
he gave her an account of his journey, his discourse with his father,
and the leave he asked to go and see him often, had never talked of the
Sultan, as if there had been no such person in the world, whereas before
he was always speaking of him, she thought he forebore on her account;
therefore she took an opportunity to say to him one day: "Prince, tell
me, have you forgot the Sultan your father? Don't you remember the
promise you made to go and see him often? For my part I have not forgot
what you told me at your return, and so put you in mind of it, that you
may not be long before you acquit yourself of your promise."

So Prince Ahmed went the next morning with the same attendance as
before, but much finer, and himself more magnificently mounted,
equipped, and dressed, and was received by the Sultan with the same
joy and satisfaction. For several months he constantly paid his visits,
always in a richer and finer equipage.

At last some viziers, the Sultan's favorites, who judged of Prince
Ahmed's grandeur and power by the figure he cut, made the Sultan jealous
of his son, saying it was to be feared he might inveigle himself into
the people's favor and dethrone him.

The Sultan of the Indies was so far from thinking that Prince Ahmed
could be capable of so pernicious a design as his favorites would make
him believe that he said to them: "You are mistaken; my son loves me,
and I am certain of his tenderness and fidelity, as I have given him no
reason to be disgusted."

But the favorites went on abusing Prince Ahmed till the Sultan said: "Be
it as it will, I don't believe my son Ahmed is so wicked as you would
persuade me he is; how ever, I am obliged to you for your good advice,
and don't dispute but that it proceeds from your good intentions."

The Sultan of the Indies said this that his favorites might not know the
impressions their discourse had made on his mind; which had so alarmed
him that he resolved to have Prince Ahmed watched unknown to his grand
vizier. So he sent for a female magician, who was introduced by a back
door into his apartment. "Go immediately," he said, "and follow my son,
and watch him so well as to find out where he retires, and bring me
word."

The magician left the Sultan, and, knowing the place where Prince Ahmed
found his arrow, went immediately thither, and hid herself near the
rocks, so that nobody could see her.

The next morning Prince Ahmed set out by daybreak, without taking leave
either of the Sultan or any of his Court, according to custom. The
magician, seeing him coming, followed him with her eyes, till on a
sudden she lost sight of him and his attendants.

As the rocks were very steep and craggy, they were an insurmountable
barrier, so that the magician judged that there were but two things
for it: either that the Prince retired into some cavern, or an abode of
genies or fairies. Thereupon she came out of the place where she was hid
and went directly to the hollow way, which she traced till she came
to the farther end, looking carefully about on all sides; but,
notwithstanding all her diligence, could perceive no opening, not so
much as the iron gate which Prince Ahmed discovered, which was to be
seen and opened to none but men, and only to such whose presence was
agreeable to the Fairy Paribanou.

The magician, who saw it was in vain for her to search any farther, was
obliged to be satisfied with the discovery she had made, and returned to
give the Sultan an account.

The Sultan was very well pleased with the magician's conduct, and said
to her: "Do you as you think fit; I'll wait patiently the event of your
promises," and to encourage her made her a present of a diamond of great
value.

As Prince Ahmed had obtained the Fairy Paribanou's leave to go to the
Sultan of the Indies' Court once a month, he never failed, and the
magician, knowing the time, went a day or two before to the foot of the
rock where she lost sight of the Prince and his attendants, and waited
there.

The next morning Prince Ahmed went out, as usual, at the iron gate, with
the same attendants as before, and passed by the magician, whom he knew
not to be such, and, seeing her lie with her head against the rock,
and complaining as if she were in great pain, he pitied her, turned his
horse about, went to her, and asked her what was the matter with her,
and what he could do to ease her.

The artful sorceress looked at the Prince in a pitiful manner, without
ever lifting up her head, and answered in broken words and sighs, as
if she could hardly fetch her breath, that she was going to the capital
city, but on the way thither she was taken with so violent a fever that
her strength failed her, and she was forced to lie down where he saw
her, far from any habitation, and without any hopes of assistance.

"Good woman," replied Prince Ahmed, "you are not so far from help as you
imagine. I am ready to assist you, and convey you where you will meet
with a speedy cure; only get up, and let one of my people take you
behind him."

At these words the magician, who pretended sickness only to know where
the Prince lived and what he did, refused not the charitable offer he
made her, and that her actions might correspond with her words she made
many pretended vain endeavors to get up. At the same time two of the
Prince's attendants, alighting off their horses, helped her up, and set
her behind another, and mounted their horses again, and followed the
Prince, who turned back to the iron gate, which was opened by one of his
retinue who rode before. And when he came into the outward court of the
Fairy, without dismounting himself, he sent to tell her he wanted to
speak with her.

The Fairy Paribanou came with all imaginable haste, not knowing what
made Prince Ahmed return so soon, who, not giving her time to ask him
the reason, said: "Princess, I desire you would have compassion on this
good woman," pointing to the magician, who was held up by two of his
retinue. "I found her in the condition you see her in, and promised her
the assistance she stands in need of, and am persuaded that you, out of
your own goodness, as well as upon my entreaty, will not abandon her."

The Fairy Paribanou, who had her eyes fixed upon the pretended sick
woman all the time that the Prince was talking to her, ordered two of
her women who followed her to take her from the two men that held her,
and carry her into an apartment of the palace, and take as much care of
her as she would herself.

While the two women executed the Fairy's commands, she went up to Prince
Ahmed, and, whispering in his ear, said: "Prince, this woman is not so
sick as she pretends to be; and I am very much mistaken if she is not an
impostor, who will be the cause of a great trouble to you. But don't
be concerned, let what will be devised against you; be persuaded that
I will deliver you out of all the snares that shall be laid for you. Go
and pursue your journey."

This discourse of the Fairy's did not in the least frighten Prince
Ahmed. "My Princess," said he, "as I do not remember I ever did or
designed anybody an injury, I cannot believe anybody can have a thought
of doing me one, but if they have I shall not, nevertheless, forbear
doing good whenever I have an opportunity." Then he went back to his
father's palace.

In the meantime the two women carried the magician into a very fine
apartment, richly furnished. First they sat her down upon a sofa, with
her back supported with a cushion of gold brocade, while they made a bed
on the same sofa before her, the quilt of which was finely embroidered
with silk, the sheets of the finest linen, and the coverlet
cloth-of-gold. When they had put her into bed (for the old sorceress
pretended that her fever was so violent she could not help herself in
the least) one of the women went out, and returned soon again with a
china dish in her hand, full of a certain liquor, which she presented to
the magician, while the other helped her to sit up. "Drink this liquor,"
said she; "it is the Water of the Fountain of Lions, and a sovereign
remedy against all fevers whatsoever. You will find the effect of it in
less than an hour's time."

The magician, to dissemble the better, took it after a great deal of
entreaty; but at last she took the china dish, and, holding back her
head, swallowed down the liquor. When she was laid down again the two
women covered her up. "Lie quiet," said she who brought her the china
cup, "and get a little sleep if you can. We'll leave you, and hope to
find you perfectly cured when we come again an hour hence."

The two women came again at the time they said they should, and found
the magician up and dressed, and sitting upon the sofa. "Oh, admirable
potion!" she said: "it has wrought its cure much sooner than you told me
it would, and I shall be able to prosecute my journey."

The two women, who were fairies as well as their mistress, after they
had told the magician how glad they were that she was cured so soon,
walked before her, and conducted her through several apartments, all
more noble than that wherein she lay, into a large hall, the most richly
and magnificently furnished of all the palace.

Fairy Paribanou sat in this hall on a throne of massive gold, enriched
with diamonds, rubies, and pearls of an extraordinary size, and attended
on each hand by a great number of beautiful fairies, all richly clothed.
At the sight of so much majesty, the magician was not only dazzled, but
was so amazed that, after she had prostrated herself before the throne,
she could not open her lips to thank the Fairy as she proposed. However,
Paribanou saved her the trouble, and said to her: "Good woman, I am glad
I had an opportunity to oblige you, and to see you are able to pursue
your journey. I won't detain you, but perhaps you may not be displeased
to see my palace; follow my women, and they will show it you."

Then the magician went back and related to the Sultan of the Indies all
that had happened, and how very rich Prince Ahmed was since his marriage
with the Fairy, richer than all the kings in the world, and how there
was danger that he should come and take the throne from his father.

Though the Sultan of the Indies was very well persuaded that Prince
Ahmed's natural disposition was good, yet he could not help being
concerned at the discourse of the old sorceress, to whom, when she was
taking her leave, he said: "I thank thee for the pains thou hast taken,
and thy wholesome advice. I am so sensible of the great importance it is
to me that I shall deliberate upon it in council."

Now the favorites advised that the Prince should be killed, but the
magician advised differently: "Make him give you all kinds of wonderful
things, by the Fairy's help, till she tires of him and sends him away.
As, for example, every time your Majesty goes into the field, you are
obliged to be at a great expense, not only in pavilions and tents for
your army, but likewise in mules and camels to carry their baggage. Now,
might not you engage him to use his interest with the Fairy to procure
you a tent which might be carried in a man's hand, and which should be
so large as to shelter your whole army against bad weather?"

When the magician had finished her speech, the Sultan asked his
favorites if they had anything better to propose; and, finding them
all silent, determined to follow the magician's advice, as the most
reasonable and most agreeable to his mild government.

Next day the Sultan did as the magician had advised him, and asked for
the pavilion.

Prince Ahmed never expected that the Sultan his father would have
asked such a thing, which at first appeared so difficult, not to say
impossible. Though he knew not absolutely how great the power of genies
and fairies was, he doubted whether it extended so far as to compass
such a tent as his father desired. At last he replied: "Though it is
with the greatest reluctance imaginable, I will not fail to ask the
favor of my wife your Majesty desires, but will not promise you to
obtain it; and if I should not have the honor to come again to pay you
my respects that shall be the sign that I have not had success. But
beforehand, I desire you to forgive me, and consider that you yourself
have reduced me to this extremity."

"Son," replied the Sultan of the Indies, "I should be very sorry if what
I ask of you should cause me the displeasure of never seeing you more. I
find you don't know the power a husband has over a wife; and yours would
show that her love to you was very indifferent if she, with the power
she has of a fairy, should refuse you so trifling a request as this I
desire you to ask of her for my sake." The Prince went back, and was
very sad for fear of offending the Fairy. She kept pressing him to
tell her what was the matter, and at last he said: "Madam, you may have
observed that hitherto I have been content with your love, and have
never asked you any other favor. Consider then, I conjure you, that
it is not I, but the Sultan my father, who indiscreetly, or at least I
think so, begs of you a pavilion large enough to shelter him, his Court,
and army from the violence of the weather, and which a man may carry in
his hand. But remember it is the Sultan my father asks this favor."

"Prince," replied the Fairy, smiling, "I am sorry that so small a matter
should disturb you, and make you so uneasy as you appeared to me."

Then the Fairy sent for her treasurer, to whom, when she came, she said:
"Nourgihan"--which was her name--"bring me the largest pavilion in my
treasury." Nourgiham returned presently with the pavilion, which she
could not only hold in her hand, but in the palm of her hand when she
shut her fingers, and presented it to her mistress, who gave it to
Prince Ahmed to look at.

When Prince Ahmed saw the pavilion which the Fairy called the largest in
her treasury, he fancied she had a mind to jest with him, and thereupon
the marks of his surprise appeared presently in his countenance; which
Paribanou perceiving burst out laughing. "What! Prince," cried she, "do
you think I jest with you? You'll see presently that I am in earnest.
Nourgihan," said she to her treasurer, taking the tent out of Prince
Ahmed's hands, "go and set it up, that the Prince may judge whether it
may be large enough for the Sultan his father."

The treasurer went immediately with it out of the palace, and carried it
a great way off; and when she had set it up one end reached to the very
palace; at which time the Prince, thinking it small, found it large
enough to shelter two greater armies than that of the Sultan his
father's, and then said to Paribanou: "I ask my Princess a thousand
pardons for my incredulity; after what I have seen I believe there
is nothing impossible to you." "You see," said the Fairy, "that the
pavilion is larger than what your father may have occasion for; for
you must know that it has one property--that it is larger or smaller
according to the army it is to cover."

The treasurer took down the tent again, and brought it to the Prince,
who took it, and, without staying any longer than till the next day,
mounted his horse, and went with the same attendants to the Sultan his
father.

The Sultan, who was persuaded that there could not be any such thing
as such a tent as he asked for, was in a great surprise at the Prince's
diligence. He took the tent and after he had admired its smallness his
amazement was so great that he could not recover himself. When the tent
was set up in the great plain, which we have before mentioned, he found
it large enough to shelter an army twice as large as he could bring into
the field.

But the Sultan was not yet satisfied. "Son," said he, "I have already
expressed to you how much I am obliged to you for the present of the
tent you have procured me; that I look upon it as the most valuable
thing in all my treasury. But you must do one thing more for me, which
will be every whit as agreeable to me. I am informed that the Fairy,
your spouse, makes use of a certain water, called the Water of the
Fountain of Lions, which cures all sorts of fevers, even the most
dangerous, and, as I am perfectly well persuaded my health is dear to
you, I don't doubt but you will ask her for a bottle of that water for
me, and bring it me as a sovereign medicine, which I may make use of
when I have occasion. Do me this other important piece of service, and
thereby complete the duty of a good son toward a tender father."

The Prince returned and told the Fairy what his father had said;
"There's a great deal of wickedness in this demand?" she answered, "as
you will understand by what I am going to tell you. The Fountain of
Lions is situated in the middle of a court of a great castle, the
entrance into which is guarded by four fierce lions, two of which sleep
alternately, while the other two are awake. But don't let that frighten
you: I'll give you means to pass by them without any danger."

The Fairy Paribanou was at that time very hard at work, and, as she had
several clews of thread by her, she took up one, and, presenting it
to Prince Ahmed, said: "First take this clew of thread. I'll tell you
presently the use of it. In the second place, you must have two horses;
one you must ride yourself, and the other you must lead, which must be
loaded with a sheep cut into four quarters, that must be killed to-day.
In the third place, you must be provided with a bottle, which I will
give you, to bring the water in. Set out early to-morrow morning, and
when you have passed the iron gate throw the clew of thread before you,
which will roll till it comes to the gates of the castle. Follow it, and
when it stops, as the gates will be open, you will see the four lions:
the two that are awake will, by their roaring, wake the other two, but
don't be frightened, but throw each of them a quarter of mutton, and
then clap spurs to your horse and ride to the fountain; fill your bottle
without alighting, and then return with the same expedition. The lions
will be so busy eating they will let you pass by them."

Prince Ahmed set out the next morning at the time appointed by the
Fairy, and followed her directions exactly. When he arrived at the
gates of the castle he distributed the quarters of mutton among the
four lions, and, passing through the midst of them bravely, got to the
fountain, filled his bottle, and returned back as safe and sound as he
went. When he had gone a little distance from the castle gates he turned
him about, and, perceiving two of the lions coming after him, he drew
his sabre and prepared himself for defense. But as he went forward he
saw one of them turned out of the road at some distance, and showed by
his head and tail that he did not come to do him any harm, but only to
go before him, and that the other stayed behind to follow, he put his
sword up again in its scabbard. Guarded in this manner, he arrived at
the capital of the Indies, but the lions never left him till they had
conducted him to the gates of the Sultan's palace; after which they
returned the same way they came, though not without frightening all
that saw them, for all they went in a very gentle manner and showed no
fierceness.

A great many officers came to attend the Prince while he dismounted his
horse, and afterward conducted him into the Sultan's apartment, who was
at that time surrounded with his favorites. He approached toward the
throne, laid the bottle at the Sultan's feet, and kissed the rich
tapestry which covered his footstool, and then said:

"I have brought you, sir, the healthful water which your Majesty desired
so much to keep among your other rarities in your treasury, but at the
same time wish you such extraordinary health as never to have occasion
to make use of it."

After the Prince had made an end of his compliment the Sultan placed him
on his right hand, and then said to him: "Son, I am very much obliged
to you for this valuable present, as also for the great danger you have
exposed yourself to upon my account (which I have been informed of by
a magician who knows the Fountain of Lions); but do me the pleasure,"
continued he, "to inform me by what address, or, rather, by what
incredible power, you have been secured."

"Sir," replied Prince Ahmed, "I have no share in the compliment your
Majesty is pleased to make me; all the honor is due to the Fairy my
spouse, whose good advice I followed." Then he informed the Sultan what
those directions were, and by the relation of this his expedition let
him know how well he had behaved himself. When he had done the Sultan,
who showed outwardly all the demonstrations of great joy, but secretly
became more jealous, retired into an inward apartment, where he sent for
the magician.

The magician, at her arrival, saved the Sultan the trouble to tell her
of the success of Prince Ahmed's journey, which she had heard of before
she came, and therefore was prepared with an infallible means, as she
pretended. This means she communicated to the Sultan who declared it
the next day to the Prince, in the midst of all his courtiers, in these
words: "Son," said he, "I have one thing more to ask of you, after which
I shall expect nothing more from your obedience, nor your interest with
your wife. This request is, to bring me a man not above a foot and a
half high, and whose beard is thirty feet long who carries a bar of
iron upon his shoulders of five hundredweight, which he uses as a
quarterstaff."

Prince Ahmed, who did not believe that there was such a man in the world
as his father described, would gladly have excused himself; but the
Sultan persisted in his demand, and told him the Fairy could do more
incredible things.

The next day the Prince returned to his dear Paribanou, to whom he told
his father's new demand, which, he said, he looked upon to be a thing
more impossible than the two first; "for," added he, "I cannot imagine
there can be such a man in the world; without doubt, he has a mind to
try whether or no I am so silly as to go about it, or he has a design on
my ruin. In short, how can he suppose that I should lay hold of a man
so well armed, though he is but little? What arms can I make use of to
reduce him to my will? If there are any means, I beg you will tell them,
and let me come off with honor this time."

"Don't affright yourself, Prince," replied the Fairy; "you ran a risk in
fetching the Water of the Fountain of Lions for your father, but there's
no danger in finding out this man, who is my brother Schaibar, but is so
far from being like me, though we both had the same father, that he is
of so violent a nature that nothing can prevent his giving cruel marks
of his resentment for a slight offense; yet, on the other hand, is so
good as to oblige anyone in whatever they desire. He is made exactly as
the Sultan your father has described him, and has no other arms than a
bar of iron of five hundred pounds weight, without which he never stirs,
and which makes him respected. I'll send for him, and you shall judge
of the truth of what I tell you; but be sure to prepare yourself against
being frightened at his extraordinary figure when you see him." "What!
my Queen," replied Prince Ahmed, "do you say Schaibar is your brother?
Let him be never so ugly or deformed I shall be so far from being
frightened at the sight of him that, as our brother, I shall honor and
love him."

The Fairy ordered a gold chafing-dish to be set with a fire in it under
the porch of her palace, with a box of the same metal, which was a
present to her, out of which taking a perfume, and throwing it into the
fire, there arose a thick cloud of smoke.

Some moments after the Fairy said to Prince Ahmed: "See, there comes my
brother." The Prince immediately perceived Schaibar coming gravely with
his heavy bar on his shoulder, his long beard, which he held up before
him, and a pair of thick mustachios, which he tucked behind his ears and
almost covered his face; his eyes were very small and deep-set in his
head, which was far from being of the smallest size, and on his head he
wore a grenadier's cap; besides all this, he was very much hump-backed.

If Prince Ahmed had not known that Schaibar was Paribanou's brother,
he would not have been able to have looked at him without fear, but,
knowing first who he was, he stood by the Fairy without the least
concern.

Schaibar, as he came forward, looked at the Prince earnestly enough to
have chilled his blood in his veins, and asked Paribanou, when he first
accosted her, who that man was. To which she replied: "He is my husband,
brother. His name is Ahmed; he is son to the Sultan of the Indies. The
reason why I did not invite you to my wedding was I was unwilling to
divert you from an expedition you were engaged in, and from which I
heard with pleasure you returned victorious, and so took the liberty now
to call for you."

At these words, Schaibar, looking on Prince Ahmed favorably, said: "Is
there anything else, sister, wherein I can serve him? It is enough
for me that he is your husband to engage me to do for him whatever he
desires." "The Sultan, his father," replied Paribanou, "has a curiosity
to see you, and I desire he may be your guide to the Sultan's Court."
"He needs but lead me the way I'll follow him." "Brother," replied
Paribanou, "it is too late to go to-day, therefore stay till to-morrow
morning; and in the meantime I'll inform you of all that has passed
between the Sultan of the Indies and Prince Ahmed since our marriage."

The next morning, after Schaibar had been informed of the affair, he and
Prince Ahmed set out for the Sultan's Court. When they arrived at the
gates of the capital the people no sooner saw Schaibar but they ran and
hid themselves; and some shut up their shops and locked themselves up in
their houses, while others, flying, communicated their fear to all they
met, who stayed not to look behind them, but ran too; insomuch that
Schaibar and Prince Ahmed, as they went along, found the streets all
desolate till they came to the palaces where the porters, instead
of keeping the gates, ran away too, so that the Prince and Schaibar
advanced without any obstacle to the council-hall, where the Sultan was
seated on his throne, and giving audience. Here likewise the ushers,
at the approach of Schaibar, abandoned their posts, and gave them free
admittance.

Schaibar went boldly and fiercely up to the throne, without waiting to
be presented by Prince Ahmed, and accosted the Sultan of the Indies in
these words: "Thou hast asked for me," said he; "see, here I am; what
wouldst thou have with me?"

The Sultan, instead of answering him, clapped his hands before his eyes
to avoid the sight of so terrible an object; at which uncivil and rude
reception Schaibar was so much provoked, after he had given him the
trouble to come so far, that he instantly lifted up his iron bar and
killed him before Prince Ahmed could intercede in his behalf. All that
he could do was to prevent his killing the grand vizier, who sat not far
from him, representing to him that he had always given the Sultan his
father good advice. "These are they, then," said Schaibar, "who gave him
bad," and as he pronounced these words he killed all the other viziers
and flattering favorites of the Sultan who were Prince Ahmed's enemies.
Every time he struck he killed some one or other, and none escaped but
they who were not so frightened as to stand staring and gaping, and who
saved themselves by flight.

When this terrible execution was over Schaibar came out of the
council-hall into the midst of the courtyard with the iron bar upon his
shoulder, and, looking hard at the grand vizier, who owed his life to
Prince Ahmed, he said: "I know here is a certain magician, who is a
greater enemy of my brother-in-law than all these base favorites I
have chastised. Let the magician be brought to me presently." The grand
vizier immediately sent for her, and as soon as she was brought Schaibar
said, at the time he fetched a stroke at her with his iron bar: "Take
the reward of thy pernicious counsel, and learn to feign sickness
again."

After this he said: "This is not yet enough; I will use the whole town
after the same manner if they do not immediately acknowledge Prince
Ahmed, my brother-in-law, for their Sultan and the Sultan of the
Indies." Then all that were there present made the air echo again
with the repeated acclamations of: "Long life to Sultan Ahmed"; and
immediately after he was proclaimed through the whole town. Schaibar
made him be clothed in the royal vestments, installed him on the throne,
and after he had caused all to swear homage and fidelity to him went
and fetched his sister Paribanou, whom he brought with all the pomp and
grandeur imaginable, and made her to be owned Sultaness of the Indies.

As for Prince Ali and Princess Nouronnihar, as they had no hand in the
conspiracy against Prince Ahmed and knew nothing of any, Prince Ahmed
assigned them a considerable province, with its capital, where they
spent the rest of their lives. Afterwards he sent an officer to Prince
Houssain to acquaint him with the change and make him an offer of which
province he liked best; but that Prince thought himself so happy in his
solitude that he bade the officer return the Sultan his brother thanks
for the kindness he designed him, assuring him of his submission; and
that the only favor he desired of him was to give him leave to live
retired in the place he had made choice of for his retreat.(1)


(1) Arabian Nights.




THE HISTORY OF JACK THE GIANT-KILLER


In the reign of the famous King Arthur there lived in Cornwall a lad
named Jack, who was a boy of a bold temper, and took delight in hearing
or reading of conjurers, giants, and fairies; and used to listen eagerly
to the deeds of the knights of King Arthur's Round Table.

In those days there lived on St. Michael's Mount, off Cornwall, a huge
giant, eighteen feet high and nine feet round; his fierce and savage
looks were the terror of all who beheld him.

He dwelt in a gloomy cavern on the top of the mountain, and used to wade
over to the mainland in search of prey; when he would throw half a dozen
oxen upon his back, and tie three times as many sheep and hogs round his
waist, and march back to his own abode.

The giant had done this for many years when Jack resolved to destroy
him.

Jack took a horn, a shovel, a pickaxe, his armor, and a dark lantern,
and one winter's evening he went to the mount. There he dug a pit
twenty-two feet deep and twenty broad. He covered the top over so as to
make it look like solid ground. He then blew his horn so loudly that the
giant awoke and came out of his den crying out: "You saucy villain! you
shall pay for this I'll broil you for my breakfast!"

He had just finished, when, taking one step further, he tumbled headlong
into the pit, and Jack struck him a blow on the head with his pickaxe
which killed him. Jack then returned home to cheer his friends with the
news.

Another giant, called Blunderbore, vowed to be revenged on Jack if ever
he should have him in his power. This giant kept an enchanted castle in
the midst of a lonely wood; and some time after the death of Cormoran
Jack was passing through a wood, and being weary, sat down and went to
sleep.

The giant, passing by and seeing Jack, carried him to his castle, where
he locked him up in a large room, the floor of which was covered with
the bodies, skulls and bones of men and women.

Soon after the giant went to fetch his brother who was likewise a giant,
to take a meal off his flesh; and Jack saw with terror through the bars
of his prison the two giants approaching.

Jack, perceiving in one corner of the room a strong cord, took courage,
and making a slip-knot at each end, he threw them over their heads, and
tied it to the window-bars; he then pulled till he had choked them. When
they were black in the face he slid down the rope and stabbed them to
the heart.

Jack next took a great bunch of keys from the pocket of Blunderbore,
and went into the castle again. He made a strict search through all
the rooms, and in one of them found three ladies tied up by the hair
of their heads, and almost starved to death. They told him that their
husbands had been killed by the giants, who had then condemned them to
be starved to death because they would not eat the flesh of their own
dead husbands.

"Ladies," said Jack, "I have put an end to the monster and his wicked
brother; and I give you this castle and all the riches it contains, to
make some amends for the dreadful pains you have felt." He then very
politely gave them the keys of the castle, and went further on his
journey to Wales.

As Jack had but little money, he went on as fast as possible. At length
he came to a handsome house. Jack knocked at the door, when there came
forth a Welsh giant. Jack said he was a traveler who had lost his way,
on which the giant made him welcome, and let him into a room where there
was a good bed to sleep in.

Jack took off his clothes quickly, but though he was weary he could not
go to sleep. Soon after this he heard the giant walking backward and
forward in the next room, and saying to himself:

  "Though here you lodge with me this night,
  You shall not see the morning light;
  My club shall dash your brains out quite."


"Say you so?" thought Jack. "Are these your tricks upon travelers? But
I hope to prove as cunning as you are." Then, getting out of bed, he
groped about the room, and at last found a large thick billet of wood.
He laid it in his own place in the bed, and then hid himself in a dark
corner of the room.

The giant, about midnight, entered the apartment, and with his bludgeon
struck many blows on the bed, in the very place where Jack had laid the
log; and then he went back to his own room, thinking he had broken all
Jack's bones.

Early in the morning Jack put a bold face upon the matter, and walked
into the giant's room to thank him for his lodging. The giant started
when he saw him, and began to stammer out: "Oh! dear me; is it you? Pray
how did you sleep last night? Did you hear or see anything in the dead
of the night?"

"Nothing to speak of," said Jack, carelessly; "a rat, I believe, gave me
three or four slaps with its tail, and disturbed me a little; but I soon
went to sleep again."

The giant wondered more and more at this; yet he did not answer a word,
but went to bring two great bowls of hasty-pudding for their breakfast.
Jack wanted to make the giant believe that he could eat as much as
himself, so he contrived to button a leathern bag inside his coat, and
slip the hasty-pudding into this bag, while he seemed to put it into his
mouth.

When breakfast was over he said to the giant: "Now I will show you a
fine trick. I can cure all wounds with a touch; I could cut off my head
in one minute, and the next put it sound again on my shoulders. You
shall see an example." He then took hold of the knife, ripped up the
leathern bag, and all the hasty-pudding tumbled out upon the floor.

"Ods splutter hur nails!" cried the Welsh giant, who was ashamed to be
outdone by such a little fellow as Jack, "hur can do that hurself";
so he snatched up the knife, plunged it into his own stomach, and in a
moment dropped down dead.

Jack, having hitherto been successful in all his undertakings, resolved
not to be idle in future; he therefore furnished himself with a horse,
a cap of knowledge, a sword of sharpness, shoes of swiftness, and an
invisible coat, the better to perform the wonderful enterprises that lay
before him.

He traveled over high hills, and on the third day he came to a large and
spacious forest through which his road lay. Scarcely had he entered the
forest when he beheld a monstrous giant dragging along by the hair
of their heads a handsome knight and his lady. Jack alighted from his
horse, and tying him to an oak tree, put on his invisible coat, under
which he carried his sword of sharpness.

When he came up to the giant he made several strokes at him, but could
not reach his body, but wounded his thighs in several places; and at
length, putting both hands to his sword and aiming with all his might,
he cut off both his legs. Then Jack, setting his foot upon his neck,
plunged his sword into the giant's body, when the monster gave a groan
and expired.

The knight and his lady thanked Jack for their deliverance, and invited
him to their house, to receive a proper reward for his services. "No,"
said Jack, "I cannot be easy till I find out this monster's habitation."
So, taking the knight's directions, he mounted his horse and soon after
came in sight of another giant, who was sitting on a block of timber
waiting for his brother's return.

Jack alighted from his horse, and, putting on his invisible coat,
approached and aimed a blow at the giant's head, but, missing his aim,
he only cut off his nose. On this the giant seized his club and laid
about him most unmercifully.

"Nay," said Jack, "if this be the case I'd better dispatch you!" so,
jumping upon the block, he stabbed him in the back, when he dropped down
dead.

Jack then proceeded on his journey, and traveled over hills and dales,
till arriving at the foot of a high mountain he knocked at the door of a
lonely house, when an old man let him in.

When Jack was seated the hermit thus addressed him: "My son, on the top
of this mountain is an enchanted castle, kept by the giant Galligantus
and a vile magician. I lament the fate of a duke's daughter, whom they
seized as she was walking in her father's garden, and brought hither
transformed into a deer."

Jack promised that in the morning, at the risk of his life, he would
break the enchantment; and after a sound sleep he rose early, put on his
invisible coat, and got ready for the attempt.

When he had climbed to the top of the mountain he saw two fiery
griffins, but he passed between them without the least fear of danger,
for they could not see him because of his invisible coat. On the castle
gate he found a golden trumpet, under which were written these lines:

  "Whoever can this trumpet blow
  Shall cause the giant's overthrow."


As soon as Jack had read this he seized the trumpet and blew a shrill
blast, which made the gates fly open and the very castle itself tremble.

The giant and the conjurer now knew that their wicked course was at an
end, and they stood biting their thumbs and shaking with fear. Jack,
with his sword of sharpness, soon killed the giant, and the magician was
then carried away by a whirlwind; and every knight and beautiful lady
who had been changed into birds and beasts returned to their proper
shapes. The castle vanished away like smoke, and the head of the giant
Galligantus was then sent to King Arthur.

The knights and ladies rested that night at the old man's hermitage, and
next day they set out for the Court. Jack then went up to the King, and
gave his Majesty an account of all his fierce battles.

Jack's fame had now spread through the whole country, and at the King's
desire the duke gave him his daughter in marriage, to the joy of all his
kingdom. After this the King gave him a large estate, on which he and
his lady lived the rest of their days in joy and contentment.(1)




LITTLE SNOW-WHITE


Once upon a time in the middle of winter, when the flakes of snow were
falling like feathers from the clouds, a Queen sat at her palace window,
which had an ebony black frame, stitching her husband's shirts. While
she was thus engaged and looking out at the snow she pricked her finger,
and three drops of blood fell upon the snow. Now the red looked so well
upon the white that she thought to herself, "Oh, that I had a child as
white as this snow, as red as this blood, and as black as the wood of
this frame!" Soon afterwards a little daughter came to her, who was as
white as snow, and with cheeks as red as blood, and with hair as black
as ebony, and from this she was named "Snow-White." And at the same time
her mother died.

About a year afterwards the King married another wife, who was very
beautiful, but so proud and haughty that she could not bear anyone to be
better-looking than herself. She owned a wonderful mirror, and when she
stepped before it and said:

    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
     Who is the fairest of us all?"

it replied:

    "The Queen is the fairest of the day."

Then she was pleased, for she knew that the mirror spoke truly.

Little Snow-White, however, grew up, and became prettier and prettier,
and when she was seven years old she was as fair as the noonday, and
more beautiful than the Queen herself. When the Queen now asked her
mirror:

    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
     Who is the fairest of us all?"

it replied:

    "The Queen was fairest yesterday;
     Snow-White is the fairest, now, they say."

This answer so angered the Queen that she became quite yellow with envy.
From that hour, whenever she saw Snow-White, her heart was hardened
against her, and she hated the little girl. Her envy and jealousy
increased so that she had no rest day or night, and she said to a
Huntsman, "Take the child away into the forest. I will never look
upon her again. You must kill her, and bring me her heart and tongue
for a token."

The Huntsman listened and took the maiden away, but when he drew out his
knife to kill her, she began to cry, saying, "Ah, dear Huntsman, give me
my life! I will run into the wild forest, and never come home again."

This speech softened the Hunter's heart, and her beauty so touched him
that he had pity on her and said, "Well, run away then, poor child." But
he thought to himself, "The wild beasts will soon devour you." Still he
felt as if a stone had been lifted from his heart, because her death was
not by his hand. Just at that moment a young boar came roaring along to
the spot, and as soon as he clapped eyes upon it the Huntsman caught it,
and, killing it, took its tongue and heart and carried them to the
Queen, for a token of his deed.

But now poor little Snow-White was left motherless and alone, and
overcome with grief, she was bewildered at the sight of so many trees,
and knew not which way to turn. She ran till her feet refused to go
farther, and as it was getting dark, and she saw a little house near,
she entered in to rest. In this cottage everything was very small, but
very neat and elegant. In the middle stood a little table with a white
cloth over it, and seven little plates upon it, each plate having a
spoon and a knife and a fork, and there were also seven little mugs.
Against the wall were seven little beds arranged in a row, each covered
with snow-white sheets.

Little Snow-White, being both hungry and thirsty, ate a little morsel of
porridge out of each plate, and drank a drop or two of wine out of each
mug, for she did not wish to take away the whole share of anyone. After
that, because she was so tired, she laid herself down on one bed, but it
did not suit; she tried another, but that was too long; a fourth was too
short, a fifth too hard. But the seventh was just the thing; and
tucking herself up in it, she went to sleep, first saying her prayers
as usual.

When it became quite dark the owners of the cottage came home, seven
Dwarfs, who dug for gold and silver in the mountains. They first
lighted seven little lamps, and saw at once--for they lit up the whole
room--that somebody had been in, for everything was not in the order in
which they had left it.



The first asked, "Who has been sitting on my chair?" The second, "Who
has been eating off my plate?" The third said, "Who has been nibbling
at my bread?" The fourth, "Who has been at my porridge?" The fifth,
"Who has been meddling with my fork?" The sixth grumbled out, "Who has
been cutting with my knife?" The seventh said, "Who has been drinking
out of my mug?"

Then the first, looking round, began again, "Who has been lying on my
bed?" he asked, for he saw that the sheets were tumbled. At these words
the others came, and looking at their beds cried out too, "Some one has
been lying in our beds!" But the seventh little man, running up to his,
saw Snow-White sleeping in it; so he called his companions, who shouted
with wonder and held up their seven lamps, so that the light fell upon
the little girl.

"Oh, heavens! oh, heavens!" said they; "what a beauty she is!" and they
were so much delighted that they would not awaken her, but left her to
sleep, and the seventh Dwarf, in whose bed she was, slept with each of
his fellows one hour, and so passed the night.

As soon as morning dawned Snow-White awoke, and was quite frightened
when she saw the seven little men; but they were very friendly, and
asked her what she was called.

"My name is Snow-White," was her reply.

"Why have you come into our cottage?" they asked.

Then she told them how her stepmother would have had her killed, but the
Huntsman had spared her life, and how she had wandered about the Whole
day until at last she had found their house.

When her tale was finished the Dwarfs said, "Will you look after our
household--be our cook, make the beds, wash, sew, and knit for us, and
keep everything in neat order? If so, we will keep you here, and you
shall want for nothing."

And Snow-White answered, "Yes, with all my heart and will." And so she
remained with them, and kept their house in order.

In the morning the Dwarfs went into the mountains and searched for
silver and gold, and in the evening they came home and found their meals
ready for them. During the day the maiden was left alone, and therefore
the good Dwarfs warned her and said, "Be careful of your stepmother, who
will soon know of your being here. So let nobody enter the cottage."

The Queen meanwhile, supposing that she had eaten the heart and tongue
of her stepdaughter, believed that she was now above all the most
beautiful woman in the world. One day she stepped before her mirror,
and said:

    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
     Who is the fairest of us all?"

and it replied:

    "The Queen was fairest yesterday;
     Snow-White is fairest now, they say.
     The Dwarfs protect her from thy sway
     Amid the forest, far away."

This reply surprised her, but she knew that the mirror spoke the truth.
She knew, therefore, that the Huntsman had deceived her, and that
Snow-White was still alive. So she dyed her face and clothed herself as
a pedler woman, so that no one could recognize her, and in this disguise
she went over the seven hills to the house of the seven Dwarfs. She
knocked at the door of the hut, and called out, "Fine goods for sale!
beautiful goods for sale!"

Snow-White peeped out of the window and said, "Good day, my good woman;
what have you to sell?"

"Fine goods, beautiful goods!" she replied. "Stays of all colors." And
she held up a pair which were made of many-colored silks.

"I may let in this honest woman," thought Snow-White; and she unbolted
the door and bargained for one pair of stays.

"You can't think, my dear, how they become you!" exclaimed the old
woman. "Come, let me lace them up for you."

Snow-White suspected nothing, and let her do as she wished, but the old
woman laced her up so quickly and so tightly that all her breath went,
and she fell down like one dead. "Now," thought the old woman to
herself, hastening away, "now am I once more the most beautiful of all!"



At eventide, not long after she had left, the seven Dwarfs came home,
and were much frightened at seeing their dear little maid lying on the
ground, and neither moving nor breathing, as if she were dead. They
raised her up, and when they saw that she was laced too tight they cut
the stays to pieces, and presently she began to breathe again, and
little by little she revived. When the Dwarfs now heard what had taken
place, they said, "The old pedler woman was no other than your wicked
stepmother. Take more care of yourself, and let no one enter when we are
not with you."

Meanwhile, the Queen had reached home, and, going before her mirror, she
repeated her usual words:

    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
     Who is the fairest of us all?"

and it replied as before:

    "The Queen was fairest yesterday;
     Snow-White is fairest now, they say.
     The Dwarfs protect her from thy sway
     Amid the forest, far away."

As soon as it had finished, all her blood rushed to her heart, for
she was so angry to hear that Snow-White was yet living. "But now,"
thought she to herself, "will I make something which shall destroy her
completely." Thus saying, she made a poisoned comb by arts which she
understood, and then, disguising herself, she took the form of an old
widow. She went over the seven hills to the house of the seven Dwarfs,
and knocking at the door, called out, "Good wares to sell to-day!"

Snow-White peeped out and said, "You must go farther, for I dare not
let you in."



"But still you may look," said the old woman, drawing out her poisoned
comb and holding it up. The sight of this pleased the maiden so much
that she allowed herself to be persuaded, and opened the door. As soon
as she had bought something the old woman said, "Now let me for once
comb your hair properly," and Snow-White consented. But scarcely was
the comb drawn through the hair when the poison began to work, and the
maiden fell down senseless.

"You pattern of beauty," cried the wicked Queen, "it is now all over
with you." And so saying, she departed.

Fortunately, evening soon came, and the seven Dwarfs returned, and as
soon as they saw Snow-White lying, like dead, upon the ground, they
suspected the Queen, and discovering the poisoned comb, they immediately
drew it out. Then the maiden very soon revived and told them all that
had happened. So again they warned her against the wicked stepmother,
and bade her open the door to nobody.

Meanwhile the Queen, on her arrival home, had again consulted her
mirror, and received the same answer as twice before. This made her
tremble and foam with rage and jealousy, and she swore that Snow-White
should die if it cost her her own life. Thereupon she went into an inner
secret chamber where no one could enter, and made an apple of the most
deep and subtle poison. Outwardly it looked nice enough, and had rosy
cheeks which would make the mouth of everyone who looked at it water;
but whoever ate the smallest piece of it would surely die. As soon as
the apple was ready the Queen again dyed her face, and clothed herself
like a peasant's wife, and then over the seven mountains to the house of
the seven Dwarfs she made her way.

She knocked at the door, and Snow-White stretched out her head and said,
"I dare not let anyone enter; the seven Dwarfs have forbidden me."

"That is hard on me," said the old woman, "for I must take back my
apples; but there is one which I will give you."

"No," answered Snow-White; "no, I dare not take it."

"What! are you afraid of it?" cried the old woman. "There, see--I will
cut the apple in halves; do you eat the red cheeks, and I will eat the
core." (The apple was so artfully made that the red cheeks alone were
poisoned.) Snow-White very much wished for the beautiful apple, and
when she saw the woman eating the core she could no longer resist, but,
stretching out her hand, took the poisoned part. Scarcely had she placed
a piece in her mouth when she fell down dead upon the ground. Then the
Queen, looking at her with glittering eyes, and laughing bitterly,
exclaimed, "White as snow, red as blood, black as ebony! This time
the Dwarfs cannot reawaken you."

When she reached home and consulted her mirror--

    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
     Who is the fairest of us all?"

it answered:

    "The Queen is fairest of the day."



Then her envious heart was at rest, as peacefully as an envious heart
can rest.

When the little Dwarfs returned home in the evening they found
Snow-White lying on the ground, and there appeared to be no life in
her body; she seemed to be quite dead. They raised her up, and tried
if they could find anything poisonous. They unlaced her, and even
uncombed her hair, and washed her with water and with wine. But
nothing availed: the dear child was really and truly dead.

Then they laid her upon a bier, and all seven placed themselves around
it, and wept and wept for three days without ceasing. Then they prepared
to bury her. But she looked still fresh and life-like, and even her red
cheeks had not deserted her, so they said to one another, "We cannot
bury her in the black ground." Then they ordered a case to be made of
glass. In this they could see the body on all sides, and the Dwarfs
wrote her name with golden letters upon the glass, saying that she was
a King's daughter. Now they placed the glass case upon the ledge on a
rock, and one of them always remained by it watching. Even the birds
bewailed the loss of Snow-White; first came an owl, then a raven, and
last of all a dove.

For a long time Snow-White lay peacefully in her case, and changed not,
but looked as if she were only asleep, for she was still white as snow,
red as blood, and black-haired as ebony. By and by it happened that a
King's son was traveling in the forest, and came to the Dwarfs' house
to pass the night. He soon saw the glass case upon the rock, and the
beautiful maiden lying within, and he read also the golden inscription.

When he had examined it, he said to the Dwarfs, "Let me have this case,
and I will pay what you like for it."

But the Dwarfs replied, "We will not sell it for all the gold in the
world."

"Then give it to me," said the Prince; "for I cannot live without
Snow-White. I will honor and protect her as long as I live."

When the Dwarfs saw that he was so much in earnest, they pitied him,
and at last gave him the case, and the Prince ordered it to be carried
away on the shoulders of his attendants. Presently it happened that
they stumbled over a rut, and with the shock the piece of poisoned
apple which lay in Snow-White's mouth fell out. Very soon she opened
her eyes, and raising the lid of the glass case, she rose up and asked,
"Where am I?"

Full of joy, the Prince answered, "You are safe with me." And he told
to her what she had suffered, and how he would rather have her than any
other for his wife, and he asked her to accompany him home to the castle
of the King his father. Snow-White consented, and when they arrived
there they were married with great splendor and magnificence.

Snow-White's stepmother was also invited to the wedding, and when she
was dressed in all her finery to go, she first stepped in front of her
mirror and asked:

    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
     Who is the fairest of us all?"

and it replied:

    "The Queen was fairest yesterday;
     The Prince's bride is now, they say."

At these words the Queen was in a fury, and was so terribly mortified
that she knew not what to do with herself. At first she resolved not
to go to the wedding, but she could not resist the wish to see the
Princess. So she went; but as soon as she saw the bride she recognized
Snow-White, and was so terrified with rage and astonishment that she
rushed out of the castle and was never heard of again.






THE UGLY DUCKLING




It was beautiful in the country. It was summertime. The wheat was
yellow, the oats were green, the hay was stacked up in the green
meadows, and the stork paraded about on his long red legs, talking
in Egyptian, which language he had learnt from his mother.

The fields and meadows were skirted by thick woods, and a deep lake lay
in the midst of the woods. Yes; it was indeed beautiful in the country!
The sunshine fell warmly on an old mansion, surrounded by deep canals,
and from the walls down to the water's edge there grew large burdock
leaves, so high that children could stand upright among them without
being seen.

This place was as wild as the thickest part of the wood, and on that
account a Duck had chosen to make her nest there. She was sitting on
her eggs; but the pleasure she had felt at first was now almost gone,
because she had been there so long, and had so few visitors, for the
other Ducks preferred swimming on the canals to sitting among the
burdock leaves gossiping with her.

At last the eggs cracked one after another, "Chick, chick!" All the eggs
were alive, and one little head after another peered forth. "Quack,
quack!" said the Duck, and all got up as well as they could. They peeped
about from under the green leaves; and as green is good for the eyes,
their mother let them look as long as they pleased.

"How large the world is!" said the little ones, for they found their new
abode very different from their former narrow one in the egg-shells.

"Do you imagine this to be the whole of the world?" said the mother.
"It extends far beyond the other side of the garden in the pastor's
field; but I have never been there. Are you all here?" And then she got
up. "No, not all, for the largest egg is still here. How long will this
last? I am so weary of it!" And then she sat down again.

"Well, and how are you getting on?" asked an old Duck, who had come to
pay her a visit.

"This one egg keeps me so long," said the mother. "It will not break.
But you should see the others! They are the prettiest little Ducklings
I have seen in all my days. They are all like their father--the
good-for-nothing fellow, he has not been to visit me once!"

"Let me see the egg that will not break," said the old Duck. "Depend
upon it, it is a turkey's egg. I was cheated in the same way once
myself, and I had such trouble with the young ones; for they were afraid
of the water, and I could not get them there. I called and scolded, but
it was all of no use. But let me see the egg--ah, yes! to be sure, that
is a turkey's egg. Leave it, and teach the other little ones to swim."


"What is the Matter?" asked the Old Woman]

"I will sit on it a little longer," said the Duck. "I have been sitting
so long, that I may as well spend the harvest here."

"It is no business of mine," said the old Duck, and away she waddled.

The great egg burst at last. "Chick! chick!" said the little one, and
out it tumbled--but, oh! how large and ugly it was! The Duck looked at
it. "That is a great, strong creature," said she. "None of the others
are at all like it. Can it be a young turkey-cock? Well, we shall soon
find out. It must go into the water, though I push it in myself."

The next day there was delightful weather, and the sun shone warmly upon
the green leaves when Mother Duck with all her family went down to the
canal. Plump she went into the water. "Quack! quack!" cried she, and one
duckling after another jumped in. The water closed over their heads, but
all came up again, and swam together quite easily. Their legs moved
without effort. All were there, even the ugly grey one.

"No; it is not a turkey," said the old Duck; "only see how prettily it
moves its legs, how upright it holds itself! It is my own child. It is
also really very pretty, when you look more closely at it. Quack! quack!
now come with me, I will take you into the world and introduce you in
the duck-yards. But keep close to me, or someone may tread on you; and
beware of the Cat."

So they came into the duck-yard. There was a horrid noise; two families
were quarreling about the head of an eel, which in the end was carried
off by the Cat.

"See, my children, such is the way of the world," said the Mother Duck,
wiping her beak, for she, too, was fond of eels. "Now use your legs,"
said she, "keep together, and bow to the old Duck you see yonder. She
is the most distinguished of all the fowls present, and is of Spanish
blood, which accounts for her dignified appearance and manners. And
look, she has a red rag on her leg! That is considered extremely
handsome, and is the greatest honor a Duck can have. Don't turn your
feet inwards; a well-educated Duckling always keeps his legs far apart,
like his father and mother, just so--look! Now bow your necks, and say,
'Quack.'"

And they did as they were told. But the other Ducks, who were in the
yard, looked at them and said aloud, "Just see! Now we have another
brood, as if there were not enough of us already. And fie! how ugly
that one is. We will not endure it." And immediately one of the Ducks
flew at him, and bit him in the neck.



"Leave him alone," said the mother. "He is doing no one any harm."

"Yes, but he is so large and so strange-looking, and therefore he shall
be teased," said the others.

"Those are fine children that our good mother has," said the old Duck
with the red rag on her leg. "All are pretty except one, and that has
not turned out well; I almost wish it could be hatched over again."

"That cannot be, please your Highness," said the mother. "Certainly he
is not handsome, but he is a very good child, and swims as well as the
others, indeed, rather better. I think he will grow like the others all
in good time, and perhaps will look smaller. He stayed so long in the
egg-shell, that is the cause of the difference." And she scratched the
Duckling's neck, and stroked his whole body. "Besides," added she, "he
is a Drake. I think he will be very strong, so it does not matter so
much. He will fight his way through."


"The other Ducks are very pretty," said the old Duck. "Pray make
yourselves at home, and if you find an eel's head you can bring it
to me."

So they made themselves at home.

But the poor little Duckling, who had come last out of its egg-shell,
and who was so ugly, was bitten, pecked, and teased by both Ducks and
Hens. "It is so large!" said they all. And the Turkey-cock, who had come
into the world with spurs on, and therefore fancied he was an emperor,
puffed himself up like a ship in full sail, and marched up to the
Duckling quite red with passion. The poor little thing scarcely knew
what to do. He was quite distressed, because he was so ugly, and
because he was the jest of the poultry-yard.

So passed the first day, and afterwards matters grew worse and
worse--the poor Duckling was scorned by all. Even his brothers and
sisters behaved unkindly, and were constantly saying, "May the Cat take
you, you nasty creature!" The mother said, "Ah, if you were only far
away!" The Ducks bit him, the Hens pecked him, and the girl who fed the
poultry kicked him.

He ran through the hedge, and the little birds in the bushes were
terrified. "That is because I am so ugly," thought the Duckling,
shutting his eyes, but he ran on. At last he came to a wide moor,
where lived some Wild Ducks; here he lay the whole night, very tired
and comfortless. In the morning the Wild Ducks flew up, and saw their
new companion. "Pray who are you?" asked they; and our little Duckling
turned himself in all directions, and greeted them as politely as
possible.

"You are really uncommonly ugly!" said the Wild Ducks. "However, that
does not matter to us, provided you do not marry into our families."
Poor thing! he had never thought of marrying; he only begged permission
to lie among the reeds, and drink the water of the moor.



There he lay for two whole days. On the third day there came two Wild
Geese, or rather Ganders, who had not been long out of their egg-shells,
which accounts for their impertinence.

"Hark ye," said they; "you are so ugly that we like you very well. Will
you come with us and be a bird of passage? On another moor, not far
from this, are some dear, sweet Wild Geese, as lovely creatures as have
ever said 'Hiss, hiss.' You are truly in the way to make your fortune,
ugly as you are."

Bang! a gun went off all at once, and both Wild Geese were stretched
dead among the reeds; the water became red with blood. Bang! a gun went
off again. Whole flocks of Wild Geese flew up from among the reeds, and
another report followed.

There was a grand hunting party. The hunters lay in ambush all around;
some were even sitting in the trees, whose huge branches stretched far
over the moor. The blue smoke rose through the thick trees like a mist,
and was dispersed as it fell over the water. The hounds splashed about
in the mud, the reeds and rushes bent in all directions.

How frightened the poor little Duck was! He turned his head, thinking
to hide it under his wings, and in a moment a most formidable-looking
Dog stood close to him, his tongue hanging out of his mouth, his eyes
sparkling fearfully. He opened wide his jaws at the sight of our
Duckling, showing him his sharp white teeth, and, splash, splash!
he was gone--gone without hurting him.

"Well! let me be thankful," sighed he. "I am so ugly that even the Dog
will not eat me."

And now he lay still, though the shooting continued among the reeds,
shot following shot.

The noise did not cease till late in the day, and even then the poor
little thing dared not stir. He waited several hours before he looked
around him, and then hurried away from the moor as fast as he could.
He ran over fields and meadows, though the wind was so high that he
had some difficulty in moving.

Towards evening he reached a wretched little hut, so wretched that it
knew not on which side to fall, and therefore remained standing. The
wind blew violently, so that our poor little Duckling was obliged to
support himself on his tail, in order to stand against it; but it
became worse and worse. He then noticed that the door had lost one
of its hinges, and hung so much awry that he could creep through the
crack into the room. So he went in.

In this room lived an old woman, with her Tom-cat and her Hen. The Cat,
whom she called her little son, knew how to set up his back and purr;
indeed, he could even throw out sparks when stroked the wrong way. The
Hen had very short legs, and was therefore called "Chickie Short-legs."
She laid very good eggs, and the old woman loved her as her own child.

The next morning the new guest was discovered, and the Cat began to mew
and the Hen to cackle.



"What is the matter?" asked the old woman, looking round. But her eyes
were not good, so she took the young Duckling to be a fat Duck who had
lost her way. "This is a capital catch," said she, "I shall now have
Duck's eggs, if it be not a Drake. We shall see."

And so the Duckling was kept on trial for three weeks, but no eggs made
their appearance. Now the Cat was the master of the house, and the Hen
was the mistress, and always used to say, "We and the world," for they
imagined themselves to be not only the half of the world, but also by
far the better half. The Duckling thought it was possible to be of a
different opinion, but that the Hen would not allow.

"Can you lay eggs?" asked she.

"No."

"Well, then, hold your tongue."

And the Cat said, "Can you set up your back? Can you purr?"

"No."

"Well, then, you should have no opinion when reasonable people are
speaking."

So the Duckling sat alone in a corner, and felt very miserable. However,
he happened to think of the fresh air and bright sunshine, and these
thoughts gave him such a strong desire to swim again, that he could not
help telling it to the Hen.

"What ails you?" said the Hen. "You have nothing to do, and therefore
brood over these fancies. Either lay eggs or purr, then you will forget
them."

"But it is so delicious to swim!" said the Duckling. "So delicious when
the waters close over your head, and you plunge to the bottom!"

"Well, that is a queer sort of pleasure," said the Hen. "I think you
must be crazy. Not to speak of myself, ask the Cat--he is the most
sensible animal I know--whether he would like to swim, or to plunge to
the bottom of the water. Ask our mistress, the old woman--there is no
one in the world wiser than she. Do you think she would take pleasure
in swimming and in the waters closing over her head?"

"You do not understand me," said the Duckling.

"What! we do not understand you? So you think yourself wiser than the
Cat and the old woman, not to speak of myself? Do not fancy any such
thing, child; but be thankful for all the kindness that has been shown
you. Are you not lodged in a warm room, and have you not the advantage
of society from which you can learn something? But you are a simpleton,
and it is wearisome to have anything to do with you. Believe me, I wish
you well. I tell you unpleasant truths, but it is thus that real
friendship is shown. Come, for once give yourself the trouble to
learn to purr, or to lay eggs."

"I think I will go out into the wide world again," said the Duckling.

"Well, go," answered the Hen.

So the Duckling went. He swam on the surface of the water, he plunged
beneath, but all animals passed him by, on account of his ugliness. And
the autumn came, the leaves turned yellow and brown, the wind caught
them and danced them about, the air was very cold, the clouds were heavy
with hail or snow, and the Raven sat on the hedge and croaked. The poor
Duckling was certainly not very comfortable.

One evening, just as the sun was setting with unusual brilliancy, a
flock of large, beautiful birds rose from out of the brushwood. The
Duckling had never seen anything so beautiful before; their plumage was
of a dazzling white, and they had long, slender necks. They were Swans.
They uttered a singular cry, spread out their long splendid wings, and
flew away from these cold regions to warmer countries, across the open
sea. They flew so high, so very high! And the little Ugly Duckling's
feelings were so strange. He turned round and round in the water like a
mill-wheel, strained his neck to look after them, and sent forth such a
loud and strange cry that it almost frightened himself. Ah! he could not
forget them, those noble birds, those happy birds! When he could see
them no longer he plunged to the bottom of the water, and when he rose
again was almost beside himself. The Duckling knew not what the birds
were called, knew not whither they were flying; yet he loved them as he
had never before loved anything. He envied them not; it would never have
occurred to him to wish such beauty for himself. He would have been
quite contented if the Ducks in the duck-yard had but endured his
company--the poor, ugly creature.



And the winter was so cold, so cold, the Duckling was obliged to swim
round and round in the water to keep it from freezing. But every night
the opening in which he swam became smaller and smaller. It froze so
that the crust of ice crackled and the Duckling was obliged to make good
use of his legs to prevent the water from freezing entirely. At last,
wearied out, he lay stiff and cold in the ice.

Early in the morning there passed by a peasant who saw him, broke the
ice in pieces with his wooden shoe, and brought him home to his wife.

The poor Duckling soon revived. The children would have played with him,
but he thought they wished to tease him, and in his terror jumped into
the milk-pail, so that the milk was spilled about the room. The good
woman screamed and clapped her hands. He flew from there into the pan
where the butter was kept, and thence into the meal-barrel, and out
again, and then how strange he looked!

The woman screamed, and struck at him with the tongs, the children ran
races with each other trying to catch him, and laughed and screamed
likewise. It was well for him that the door stood open. He jumped out
among the bushes into the new-fallen snow, and there he lay as in a
dream.

But it would be too sad to tell all the trouble and misery that he had
to suffer from the frost, and snow and storms of the winter. He was
lying on a moor among the reeds, when the sun began to shine warmly
again; the larks sang, and beautiful spring had returned.

Once more he shook his wings. They were stronger than formerly and bore
him forward quickly, and before he was well aware of it he was in a
large garden where the apple-trees stood in full bloom, where the
syringas sent forth their fragrance and hung their long green branches
down into the winding canal. Oh! everything was so lovely, so full of
the freshness of spring! And out of the thicket came three beautiful
white Swans. They displayed their feathers so proudly and swam so
lightly, so lightly! The Duckling knew the glorious creatures, and was
seized with a strange sadness.

"I will fly to them, those kingly birds!" said he. "They will kill me,
because I, ugly as I am, have dared to approach them. But it matters
not. Better to be killed by them than to be bitten by the Ducks, pecked
by the Hens, kicked by the girl who feeds the poultry, and to have so
much to suffer during the winter!"



He flew into the water and swam towards the beautiful creatures. They
saw him and shot forward to meet him. "Only kill me," said the poor
creature, and he bowed his head low, expecting death. But what did he
see in the water? He saw beneath him his own form, no longer that of a
plump, ugly grey bird--it was that of a Swan.

It matters not to have been born in a duck-yard, if one has been hatched
from a Swan's egg. And now the Swan began to see the good of all the
trouble he had been through. He would never have known how happy he was
if he had not first had all his sorrow and unhappiness to bear.

The larger Swans swam round him, and stroked him with their beaks. Some
little children were running about in the garden; they threw grain and
bread into the water, and the youngest exclaimed: "There is a new one!"
The others also cried out: "Yes, a new Swan has come!" and they clapped
their hands, and danced around.

They ran to their father and mother, bread and cake were thrown into
the water, and every one said: "The new one is best, so young and so
beautiful!" And the old Swans bowed before him. The young Swan felt
quite ashamed, and hid his head under his wings. He scarcely knew what
to do. He was too happy, but still not proud, for a good heart is never
proud.

He remembered how he had been persecuted and laughed at, and he now
heard everyone say that he was the most beautiful of all beautiful
birds. The syringas bent down their branches toward him low into the
water, and the sun shone warmly and brightly. He shook his feathers,
stretched his slender neck, and in the joy of his heart said: "How
little did I dream of so much happiness when I was the despised Ugly
Duckling!"






ALADDIN AND THE WONDERFUL LAMP




Aladdin was the only son of a poor widow who lived in China; but instead
of helping his mother to earn their living, he let her do all the hard
work, while he himself only thought of idling and amusement.

One day, as he was playing in the streets, a stranger came up to him,
saying that he was his father's brother, and claiming him as his
long-lost nephew. Aladdin had never heard that his father had had a
brother; but as the stranger gave him money and promised to buy him
fine clothes and set him up in business, he was quite ready to believe
all that he told him. The man was a magician, who wanted to use Aladdin
for his own purposes.



The next day the stranger came again, brought Aladdin a beautiful suit
of clothes, gave him many good things to eat, and took him for a long
walk, telling him stories all the while to amuse him. After they had
walked a long way, they came to a narrow valley, bounded on either side
by tall, gloomy-looking mountains. Aladdin was beginning to feel tired,
and he did not like the look of this place at all. He wanted to turn
back; but the stranger would not let him. He made Aladdin follow him
still farther, until at length they reached the place where he intended
to carry out his evil design. Then he made Aladdin gather sticks to make
a fire, and when they were in a blaze he threw into them some powder,
at the same time saying some mystical words, which Aladdin could not
understand.

Immediately they were surrounded with a thick cloud of smoke. The earth
trembled, and burst open at their feet--disclosing a large flat stone
with a brass ring fixed in it. Aladdin was so terribly frightened that
he was about to run away; but the Magician gave him such a blow on the
ear that he fell to the ground.

Poor Aladdin rose to his feet with eyes full of tears, and said,
reproachfully--

"Uncle, what have I done that you should treat me so?"

"You should not have tried to run away from me," said the Magician,
"when I have brought you here only for your own advantage. Under this
stone there is hidden a treasure which will make you richer than the
richest monarch in the world. You alone may touch it. If I assist you
in any way the spell will be broken, but if you obey me faithfully, we
shall both be rich for the rest of our lives. Come, take hold of the
brass ring and lift the stone."

Aladdin forgot his fears in the hope of gaining this wonderful treasure,
and took hold of the brass ring. It yielded at once to his touch, and he
was able to lift the great stone quite easily and move it away, which
disclosed a flight of steps, leading down into the ground.

"Go down these steps," commanded the Magician, "and at the bottom you
will find a great cavern, divided into three halls, full of vessels of
gold and silver; but take care you do not meddle with these. If you
touch anything in the halls you will meet with instant death. The third
hall will bring you into a garden, planted with fine fruit trees. When
you have crossed the garden, you will come to a terrace, where you will
find a niche, and in the niche a lighted lamp. Take the lamp down, and
when you have put out the light and poured away the oil, bring it to me.
If you would like to gather any of the fruit of the garden you may do
so, provided you do not linger."

Then the Magician put a ring on Aladdin's finger, which he told him was
to preserve him from evil, and sent him down into the cavern.


Aladdin found everything just as the Magician had said. He passed
through the three halls, crossed the garden, took down the lamp from
the niche, poured out the oil, put the lamp into his bosom, and turned
to go back.

As he came down from the terrace, he stopped to look at the trees of the
garden, which were laden with wonderful fruits. To Aladdin's eyes it
appeared as if these fruits were only bits of colored glass, but in
reality they were jewels of the rarest quality. Aladdin filled his
pockets full of the dazzling things, for though he had no idea of their
real value, yet he was attracted by their dazzling brilliance. He had
so loaded himself with these treasures that when at last he came to the
steps he was unable to climb them without assistance.

"Pray, Uncle," he said, "give me your hand to help me out."

"Give me the lamp first," replied the Magician.

"Really, Uncle, I cannot do so until I am out of this place," answered
Aladdin, whose hands were, indeed, so full that he could not get at the
lamp.

But the Magician refused to help Aladdin up the steps until he had
handed over the lamp. Aladdin was equally determined not to give it up
until he was out of the cavern, and, at last, the Magician fell into a
furious rage. Throwing some more of the powder into the fire, he again
said the magic words. No sooner had he done so than there was a
tremendous thunder-clap, the stone rolled back into its place, and
Aladdin was a prisoner in the cavern. The poor boy cried aloud to his
supposed uncle to help him; but it was all in vain, his cries could not
be heard. The doors in the garden were closed by the same enchantment,
and Aladdin sat down on the steps in despair, knowing that there was
little hope of his ever seeing his Mother again.

For two terrible days he lay in the cavern waiting for death. On the
third day, realizing that it could not now be far off, he clasped his
hands in anguish, thinking of his Mother's sorrow; and in so doing he
accidently rubbed the ring which the Magician had put upon his finger.

Immediately a genie of enormous size rose out of the earth, and, as
Aladdin started back in fright and horror, said to him:



"What wouldst thou have of me?"

"Who are you?" gasped Aladdin.

"I am the slave of the ring. I am ready to obey thy commands," came the
answer.

Aladdin was still trembling; but the danger he was in already made him
answer without hesitation:

"Then, if you are able, deliver me, I beseech you, from this place."

Scarcely had he spoken, when he found himself lying on the ground at the
place to which the Magician had first brought him.

He hastened home to his Mother, who had mourned him as dead. As soon as
he had told her all his adventures, he begged her to get him some food,
for he had now been three days without eating.

"Alas, child!" replied his Mother, "I have not a bit of bread to give
you."

"Never mind, Mother," said Aladdin, "I will go and sell the old lamp
which I brought home with me. Doubtless I shall get a little money for
it."

His Mother reached down the lamp; but seeing how dirty it was, she
thought it would sell better if she cleaned it. But no sooner had she
begun to rub it than a hideous genie appeared before her, and said in
a voice like thunder:

"What wouldst thou have of me? I am ready to obey thy commands, I and
all the other slaves of the lamp."



Aladdin's Mother fainted away at the sight of this creature; but
Aladdin, having seen the genie of the ring, was not so frightened,
and said boldly:

"I am hungry, bring me something to eat."

The genie disappeared, but returned in an instant with twelve silver
dishes, filled with different kinds of savory meats, six large white
loaves, two bottles of wine, and two silver drinking cups. He placed
these things on the table and then vanished.

Aladdin fetched water, and sprinkling some on his Mother's face soon
brought her back to life again.

When she opened her eyes and saw all the good things the genie had
provided, she was overcome with astonishment.

"To whom are we indebted for this feast?" she cried. "Has the Sultan
heard of our poverty and sent us these fine things from his own table?"

"Never mind now how they came here," said Aladdin. "Let us first eat,
then I will tell you."

Mother and son made a hearty meal, and then Aladdin told his Mother that
it was the genie of the lamp who had brought them the food. His Mother
was greatly alarmed, and begged him to have nothing further to do with
genies, advising him to sell the lamp at once. But Aladdin would not
part with such a wonderful possession, and resolved to keep both the
ring and the lamp safely, in case he should ever need them again. He
showed his Mother the fruits which he had gathered in the garden, and
his Mother admired their bright colors and dazzling radiance, though
she had no idea of their real value.

Not many days after this, Aladdin was walking in the streets of the
city, when he heard a fanfare of trumpets announcing the passing of the
Princess Badroulboudour, the Sultan's only daughter. Aladdin stopped to
see her go by, and was so struck by her great beauty that he fell in
love with her on the spot and made up his mind to win her for his bride.

"Mother," he said, "I cannot live without the Princess Badroulboudour.
You must go to the Sultan and demand her hand in marriage for me."



Aladdin's Mother burst out laughing at the idea of her son wishing to be
the son-in-law of the Sultan, and told him to put such thoughts out of
his head at once. But Aladdin was not to be laughed out of his fancy. He
knew by this time that the fruits which he had gathered from the magic
garden were jewels of great value, and he insisted upon his Mother
taking them to the Sultan for a present, and asking the hand of the
Princess in marriage for her son.

The poor woman was terribly frightened, fearing lest the Sultan should
punish her for her impudence; but Aladdin would hear of no excuses, and
at last she set forth in fear and trembling, bearing the jewels on a
china dish covered with a napkin.



When she came before the Sultan, she told him, with many apologies and
pleas for forgiveness, of her son's mad love for the Princess
Badroulboudour. The Sultan smiled at the idea of the son of a poor old
woman asking for the hand of his daughter, and asked her what she had
under the napkin. But when the woman uncovered the jewels, he started up
from his throne in amazement, for he had never before seen so many large
and magnificent jewels collected together. He thought Aladdin must be a
very unusual and extraordinary person to be able to make him such a
valuable present, and he began to wonder whether it might not be worth
while to bestow the Princess's hand upon him. However, he thought he
would ask for some further proof of his wealth and power; so, turning
to the woman, he said:

"Good Mother, tell your son he shall have the Princess Badroulboudour
for his wife as soon as he sends me forty basins of gold, filled with
jewels as valuable as these, and borne by forty black and forty white
slaves. Hasten now and carry him my message. I will await your return."

Aladdin's Mother was dismayed at this request.

"Where can Aladdin get such basins and jewels and slaves?" she thought,
as she hurried home to him. But Aladdin only smiled when his Mother gave
him the Sultan's message. He rubbed the lamp, and at once the genie
stood before him, asking him what was his pleasure.

"Go," said Aladdin, "fetch me forty basins all of massive gold, full of
jewels, borne by forty black and forty white slaves."

The genie brought these things at once, and Aladdin then sent his Mother
with them to the Sultan.



The Sultan was amazed at this wonderful show of wealth and at the
quickness with which it had been brought, and he sent for Aladdin to
come to the Court.

Aladdin first summoned the genie to bring him fine clothes and a
splendid horse, and a retinue fit for the future son-in-law of the
Sultan; and then, with a train of slaves bearing magnificent presents
for the Princess, he set out for the Palace.

The Sultan would have married him to his daughter at once; but Aladdin
asked him to wait until the next morning, when he hoped to have a Palace
worthy to receive his wife.

Once again he summoned the genie to his aid, and commanded him to build
a Palace that in beauty and magnificence should surpass any that had
ever been built on the earth before.

The next morning when the Sultan awoke and looked out of his window, he
saw, opposite to his own, the most wonderful Palace he had ever seen.
The walls were built of gold and silver, and encrusted with diamonds,
rubies and emeralds, and other rare and precious stones. The stables
were filled with the finest horses; beautiful gardens surrounded the
building, and everywhere were hundreds of slaves and servants to wait
on the Princess.

The Sultan was so overcome with all this magnificence, that he insisted
upon marrying his daughter to Aladdin that very day, and the young
couple took up their residence in the Palace the genie had built.

For a time they lived very happily, but the Magician, who had gone to
Africa after he had left Aladdin to perish in the cavern, at length
happened to hear of Aladdin's fame and riches; and guessing at once the
source of all this wealth, he returned once more to China, determined to
gain possession of the magic lamp.



He bought a number of new and beautiful lamps, disguised himself as an
old beggar-man, and then, waiting until Aladdin was out hunting, he came
to the windows of the Palace, crying out:

"New lamps for old; new lamps for old."

When the Princess heard this strange cry she was very much amused.

"Let us see," she said to her ladies, "whether this foolish fellow means
what he says; there is an ugly old lamp in Aladdin's room," and taking
the precious lamp, which Aladdin always kept by his bedside, she sent it
out to the old man by one of the slaves, saying--

"Give me a new lamp for this!"



The Magician was overjoyed. He saw at once that it was the very lamp he
wanted, and giving the Princess the best of the new ones in exchange, he
hurried away with his treasure. As soon as he found himself alone, he
summoned the slave of the lamp, and told him to carry himself, the
Palace, and the Princess Badroulboudour to the farthest corner of
Africa. This order the genie at once obeyed.

When Aladdin returned from hunting and found that his wife and his
Palace had vanished, he was overcome with anguish, guessing that his
enemy, the Magician, had by some means got possession of the lamp. The
Sultan, whose grief and anger at the loss of his daughter were terrible,
ordered him to leave the Court at once, and told him that unless he
returned in forty days with the Princess safe and well, he would have
him beheaded.

Aladdin went out from the Sultan's presence, not knowing what to do or
where to turn. But after he had wandered about for some time in despair,
he remembered the ring which he still wore on his finger. He rubbed it,
and in a moment the genie stood before him. But when Aladdin commanded
him to bring back the Palace and the Princess, the genie answered--

"What you command is not in my power. You must ask the slave of the
lamp. I am only the slave of the ring."

"Then," said Aladdin, "if you cannot bring my Palace to me, I command
you to take me to my Palace." No sooner were the words out of his mouth
than he found himself standing in Africa, close to the missing Palace.

The Princess Badroulboudour, who, since the moment when the Magician had
had her in his power, had not ceased to weep and lament for her
foolishness in exchanging the lamp, happened to be looking out of the
window; and when she saw Aladdin she nearly fainted with joy, and sent
a slave to bring him secretly into the Palace.

Then she and Aladdin made a plan to get the better of the Magician and
to recover the lost lamp. Aladdin summoned the genie of the ring, who
procured for him a very powerful sleeping-powder, which he gave to the
Princess. Then Aladdin hid himself behind some curtains in the room,
and the Princess sent a message to the Magician asking him to take
supper with her.



The Magician was delighted at the Princess's invitation, and accepted
it joyfully, never dreaming that Aladdin had found his way to Africa.

As they were eating and drinking together, the Princess put the
sleeping-powder into the Magician's cup of wine--and no sooner had he
tasted it than he fell down in a deep sleep as if dead.

This was Aladdin's chance. Hastily coming out from behind the curtains,
he snatched the lamp from the Magician's bosom, and called the genie to
come to his assistance.

The genie, having first thrown out the Magician, then carried the Palace
with the Princess and Aladdin back to the spot from which it had been
taken.

Great was the Sultan's joy at receiving back his daughter. The whole
city was given over to rejoicings, and for ten days nothing was heard
but the sound of drums and trumpets and cymbals, and nothing was seen
but illuminations and gorgeous entertainments in honor of Aladdin's safe
return.



Aladdin and the Princess ascended the throne after the Sultan died and
they lived long and happily and had many beautiful children.






THE SLEEPING BEAUTY




Once upon a time there lived a King and Queen who had no children. They
longed very much for a child; and when at last they had a little
daughter they were both delighted, and great rejoicings took place.

When the time came for the little Princess to be christened, the King
made a grand feast and invited all but one of the fairies in his kingdom
to be godmothers. There happened to be thirteen fairies in the kingdom;
but as the King had only twelve gold plates, he had to leave one of
them out.

The twelve fairies that were invited came to the christening, and
presented the little Princess with the best gifts in their possession.
One gave her beauty, one gave her wisdom, another grace, another
goodness, until all but one had presented their offerings. Just as the
last fairy was about to step forward and offer her gift, there came a
tremendous knocking at the door, and before anybody could get there to
open it, it was burst open, and in came the thirteenth fairy, in a
furious rage at not having been invited to the feast.

When she saw all the gifts which the other fairies had presented the
child, she laughed and exclaimed:

"A lot of good all this beauty and virtue and wealth will do to you, my
pretty Princess! You shall pay for the slight your Royal Father has put
upon me!" Then, turning to the terrified King and Queen, she said, in a
loud voice:

"When the Princess is fifteen years old she shall prick her finger with
a spindle and die!" Having said this she flew away as noisily as she
came.

The King and Queen were in despair, and the courtiers stood aghast at
the terrible disaster; while the little Princess began to cry piteously,
as if she knew the fate in store for her. Then the twelfth fairy stepped
forward.

"Do not be afraid," she said, "I have not yet given my gift. I cannot
undo the wicked spell, but I can soften the evil. The Princess, on her
fifteenth birthday, shall prick her finger with a spindle, but she shall
not die. Instead, she shall fall asleep for a hundred years."

"Alas!" cried the Queen, "what comfort will that be to us? Long before
the hundred years are past we shall be dead, and our darling child will
be as lost to us as if she were indeed to die!"



"I can make that right," said the fairy. "When the Princess falls
asleep, you shall sleep, too; and awaken with her when the hundred
years are passed."

But the King still hoped to save his daughter from such a terrible
misfortune. So he ordered all the spinning-wheels in his kingdom to be
burnt or destroyed, and made a law that no one was to use one on pain of
instant death. But all his care was useless. On her fifteenth birthday
the Princess slipped away from her attendants, and wandered all through
the Palace. At last she came to a tower which she had never seen before,
and, wondering what it contained, she climbed the stairs. From a room at
the top came a curious humming noise, and the Princess, wondering what
it could be, pushed open the door and stepped inside.

There sat an old woman, bent with age, working at a strangely shaped
wheel. The Princess was full of curiosity.



"What is that funny-looking thing?" she asked.

"It is a spinning-wheel, Princess," answered the old woman, who was no
other than the wicked fairy in disguise.

"A spinning-wheel--what is that? I have never heard of such a thing,"
said the Princess. She stood watching for a few minutes, then she added:

"It looks quite easy. May I try to do it?"

"Certainly, gracious lady," said the wicked fairy, and the Princess sat
down and tried to turn the wheel. But no sooner did she lay her hand
upon it than the spindle, which was enchanted, pricked her finger, and
the Princess fell back against a silk-covered couch--fast asleep.

In a moment a deep silence fell upon all who were in the castle. The
King fell asleep in the midst of his councillors, the Queen with her
ladies-in-waiting. The horses in the stable, the pigeons on the roof,
the flies upon the walls, even the very fire upon the hearth fell
asleep, too. The meat which was cooking in the kitchen ceased to
frizzle; and the cook, who was just about to box the kitchen boy's
ears, fell asleep with her hand outstretched, and began to snore
aloud. The butler who was tasting the ale, fell asleep with the
jug at his lips.

A great hedge sprang up around the castle, which, as the years passed
on, grew and grew until it formed an impenetrable barrier around the
sleeping Palace. The old people of the country died, and their children
grew up and died also, and their children, and their children, and the
story of the sleeping Princess became a legend, handed down from one
generation to another; and a cloud of mystery, as thick and impenetrable
as the hedge of thorns, lay over the old castle. Many brave and gallant
Princes tried to force their way through the magic hedge, in order to
solve the mystery and to see for themselves the beautiful maiden who lay
in an enchanted sleep behind that thorny barrier. But the thorns caught
them, and held them from going forward or back, and the gallant youths
perished miserably in the thickets.



After many, many years there came a King's son into that country, who
heard the story of the Princess and the hedge of briers; and he made up
his mind to try and force his way to the castle to awake the sleeping
Princess. People told him of the fate of the other Princes, who had also
attempted this difficult task; but the Prince would not be warned.

"I have made up my mind to see this maiden of whose beauty I have heard
so many wonderful tales," he cried. "I will force a way through the
hedge of thorns and awake this Sleeping Beauty, or die in the attempt!"

Now, it happened that this day was the last day of the hundred years;
and when the Prince came to the thicket that surrounded the castle and
began to push his way through, he found that the briers yielded readily
to his touch. The thorns had all blossomed into roses that scented the
air with fragrance as he went by. Primroses sprang up before his feet
and made a pathway to lead him straight to the castle gates; and the
birds suddenly broke forth into singing, as if to tell the world that
the hundred years of enchantment were over, and the Princess about to
be awakened from her long sleep.

The Prince passed through the council chamber, where the King and his
councillors were sleeping; through the room where the Queen and her
ladies slept. He passed on from hall to hall, climbed from stair to
stair, until at last he reached the tower chamber where the sleeping
Princess lay. For a moment he stood and gazed in wonder at her lovely
face; then he sank on his knees beside her, and kissed her as she lay
asleep.

Instantly the spell was broken. The King and Queen awoke, and all the
courtiers with them; the horses neighed in the stables, and shook their
glossy manes; the pigeons cooed upon the roof; the flies on the wall
moved again; the fire burnt up brightly; and the meat in the kitchen
began to frizzle once more as the spit turned round. The cook gave the
kitchen boy the tremendous box on the ear that she had started to give
him a hundred years ago, and everything and everybody went on just as
usual, as if nothing at all out of the common had occurred.

And up in the tower chamber the Princess opened her eyes to meet the
gaze of the Prince, who had dared to risk his life for her sake. What
they said to each other nobody quite knows, for nobody was there to
hear or see. But whatever it was, it must have been something very
satisfactory; for very soon after they were married, and lived happily
ever afterwards.






PUSS-IN-BOOTS




There was once a Miller, who, at his death, had nothing to leave to his
three sons except his mill, his ass, and his cat. The eldest son took
the mill, the second took the ass--and as for the youngest, all that
remained for him was the cat.

The youngest son grumbled at this. "My brothers," said he, "will be able
to earn an honest living; but when I have eaten my cat and sold his skin
I shall die of hunger."

The Cat, who was sitting beside him, overheard this.



"Nay, Master," he said, "don't take such a gloomy view of things. If you
will get me a pair of boots made so that I can walk through the brambles
without hurting my feet, and give me a bag, you shall soon see what I am
worth."

The Cat's master was so surprised to hear his Cat talking, that he at
once got him what he wanted. The Cat drew on the boots and slung the
bag round his neck and set off for a rabbit warren. When he got there
he filled his bag with bran and lettuces, and stretching himself out
beside it as if dead, waited until some young rabbit should be tempted
into the bag. This happened very soon. A fat, thoughtless rabbit went
in headlong, and the Cat at once jumped up, pulled the strings and
killed him.

Puss was very proud of his success, and, going to the King's palace, he
asked to speak to the King. When he was shown into the King's presence
he bowed respectfully, and, laying the rabbit down before the throne,
he said--

"Sire, here is a rabbit, which my master, the Marquis of Carabas,
desires me to present to your Majesty."

"Tell your master," said the King, "that I accept his present, and am
very much obliged to him."

A few days later, the Cat went and hid himself in a cornfield and laid
his bag open as before. This time two splendid partridges were lured
into the trap, and these also he took to the Palace and presented to the
King from the Marquis of Carabas. The King was very pleased with this
gift, and ordered the messenger of the Marquis of Carabas to be
handsomely rewarded.



For two or three months the Cat went on in this way, carrying game every
day to the Palace, and saying it was sent by the Marquis of Carabas.

At last the Cat happened to hear that the King was going to take a drive
on the banks of the river, with his daughter, the most beautiful
Princess in the world. He at once went to his master.

"Master," said he, "if you follow my advice, your fortune will be made.
Go and bathe in the river at a place I shall show you, and I will do the
rest."

"Very well," said the Miller's son, and he did as the Cat told him. When
he was in the water, the Cat took away his clothes and hid them, and
then ran to the road, just as the King's coach went by, calling out as
loudly as he could--

"Help, help! The Marquis of Carabas will be drowned."

The King looked out of the carriage window, and when he saw the Cat who
had brought him so many fine rabbits and partridges, he ordered his
bodyguards to fly at once to the rescue of the Marquis of Carabas.

Then the Cat came up to the carriage and told the King that while his
master was bathing some robbers had stolen all his clothes. The King
immediately ordered one of his own magnificent suits of clothes to be
taken to the Marquis; so when the Miller's son appeared before the
monarch and his daughter, he looked so handsome, and was so splendidly
attired, that the Princess fell in love with him on the spot.

The King was so struck with his appearance that he insisted upon his
getting into the carriage to take a drive with them.

The Cat, delighted with the way his plans were turning out, ran on
before. He reached a meadow where some peasants were making hay.

"Good people," said he, "if you do not tell the King, when he comes this
way, that the meadow you are mowing belongs to the Marquis of Carabas,
you shall all be chopped up into little pieces."

When the King came by, he stopped to ask the haymakers to whom the
meadow belonged.

"To the Marquis of Carabas, if it please Your Majesty," answered they,
trembling, for the Cat's threat had frightened them terribly.

The Cat, who continued to run before the carriage, now came to some
reapers.

"Good people," said he, "if you do not tell the King that all this corn
belongs to the Marquis of Carabas, you shall all be chopped up into
little pieces."



The King again stopped to ask to whom the land belonged, and the
reapers, obedient to the Cat's command, answered--

"To the Marquis of Carabas, please Your Majesty."

And all the way the Cat kept running on before the carriage, repeating
the same instructions to all the laborers he came to; so that the King
became very astonished at the vast possessions of the Marquis of
Carabas.

At last the Cat arrived at a great castle, where an Ogre lived who was
very rich, for all the lands through which the King had been riding were
part of his estate. The Cat knocked at the castle door, and asked to see
the Ogre.

The Ogre received him very civilly, and asked him what he wanted.

"If you please, sir," said the Cat, "I have heard that you have the
power of changing yourself into any sort of animal you please--and I
came to see if it could possibly be true."

"So I have," replied the Ogre, and in a moment he turned himself into a
lion. This gave the Cat a great fright, and he scrambled up the curtains
to the ceiling.

"Indeed, sir," he said, "I am now quite convinced of your power to turn
yourself into such a huge animal as a lion; but I do not suppose you can
change yourself into a small one--such as a mouse, for instance?"

"Indeed, I can," cried the Ogre, indignantly; and in a moment the lion
had vanished, while a little brown mouse frisked about the floor.

In less than half a second the Cat sprang down from the curtains and,
pouncing upon the mouse, ate him all up before the Ogre had time to
return to any other shape.

And when the King arrived at the castle gates, there stood the Cat upon
the doorstep, bowing and saying--

"Welcome to the castle of the Marquis of Carabas!"

The Marquis helped the King and the Princess to alight, and the Cat led
them into a great hall, where a feast had been spread for the Ogre.

The King was so delighted with the good looks, the charming manners, and
the great wealth of the Marquis of Carabas, that he said the Marquis
must marry his daughter.

The Marquis, of course, replied that he should be only too happy; and
the very next day he and the Princess were married.

As for the Cat, he was given the title of Puss-in-Boots, and ever after
only caught mice for his own amusement.






ADVENTURES OF TOM THUMB




A long time ago, a woodcutter lived with his wife in a small cottage not
far from a great forest. They had seven children--all boys; and the
youngest was the smallest little fellow ever seen. He was called Tom
Thumb. But though he was so small, he was far cleverer than any of his
brothers, and he heard a great deal more than anybody ever imagined.

It happened that just at this time there was a famine in the land, and
the woodcutter and his wife became so poor that they could no longer
give their boys enough to eat.

One night--after the boys had gone to bed--the husband sighing deeply,
said--

"We cannot feed our children any longer, and to see them starve before
our eyes is more than I can bear. To-morrow morning, therefore, we will
take them into the forest and leave them in the thickest part of it, so
that they will not be able to find their way back."



His wife wept bitterly at the thought of leaving their children to
perish in the forest; but she, too, thought it better than to see them
die before her eyes. So she consented to her husband's plan.

But all this time Tom Thumb had been awake, and he had overheard all
the conversation. He lay awake a long while thinking what to do. Then,
slipping quietly out of bed, he ran down to the river and filled his
pocket with small white pebbles from the river's brink.

In the morning the parents called the children, and, after giving them a
crust of bread, they all set out for the wood. Tom Thumb did not say a
word to his brothers of what he had overheard; but, lingering behind, he
dropped the pebbles from his pocket one by one, as they walked, so that
he should be able to find his way home. When they reached a very thick
part of the forest, the father and mother told the children to wait
while they went a little farther to cut wood, but as soon as they were
out of sight they turned and went home by another way.

When darkness fell, the children began to realize that they were
deserted, and they began to cry loudly. Tom Thumb, however, did not cry.

"Do not weep, my brothers," he said encouragingly. "Only wait until the
moon rises, and we shall soon be able to find our way home."

When at length the moon rose, it shone down upon the white pebbles
which Tom Thumb had scattered; and, following this path, the children
soon reached their father's house.

But at first they were afraid to go in, and waited outside the door to
hear what their parents were talking about.



Now, it happened that when the father and mother reached home, they
found a rich gentleman had sent them ten crowns, in payment for work
which had been done long before. The wife went out at once and bought
bread and meat, and she and her husband sat down to make a hearty meal.
But the mother could not forget her little ones; and at last she cried
to her husband:

"Alas! where are our poor children? How they would have enjoyed this
good feast!"

The children, listening at the door, heard this and cried out, "Here we
are, mother; here we are!" and, overjoyed, the mother flew to let them
in and kissed them all round.

Their parents were delighted to have their little ones with them again;
but soon the ten crowns were spent, and they found themselves as badly
off as before. Once more they agreed to leave the children in the
forest, and once again Tom Thumb overheard them. This time he did not
trouble himself very much; he thought it would be easy for him to do as
he had done before. He got up very early the next morning to go and get
the pebbles; but, to his dismay, he found the house door securely
locked. Then, indeed, he did not know what to do, and for a little while
he was in great distress. However, at breakfast the mother gave each of
the children a slice of bread, and Tom Thumb thought he would manage to
make his piece of bread do as well as the pebbles, by breaking it up and
dropping the crumbs as he went.

This time the father and mother took the children still deeper and
farther into the wood, and then, slipping away, left them alone.

Tom Thumb consoled his brothers as before; but when he came to look for
the crumbs of bread, not one of them was left. The birds had eaten them
all up, and the poor children were lost in the forest, with no possible
means of finding their way home.



Tom Thumb did not lose courage. He climbed to the top of a high tree and
looked round to see if there was any way of getting help. In the
distance he saw a light burning, and, coming down from the tree, he led
his brothers toward the house from which it came.

When they knocked at the door, it was opened by a pleasant-looking
woman, and Tom Thumb told her they were poor children who had lost their
road, and begged her to give them a night's shelter.

"Alas, my poor children!" said the woman, "you do not know where you
have come to. This is the house of an ogre who eats up little boys and
girls."

"But, madam," replied Tom Thumb, "what shall we do? If we go back to the
forest we are certain to be torn to pieces by the wolves. We had better,
I think, stay and be eaten by the ogre."

The ogre's wife had pity on the little things, and she thought she would
be able to hide them from her husband for one night. She took them in,
gave them food, and let them warm themselves by the fire.

Very soon there came a loud knocking at the door. It was the ogre come
home. His wife hid the children under the bed, and then hurried to let
her husband in.

No sooner had the ogre entered than he began to sniff this way and
that. "I smell flesh," he said, looking round the room.

"It must be the calf which has just been killed," said his wife.

"I smell child's flesh, I tell you!" cried the ogre, and he suddenly
made a dive under the bed, and drew out the children one by one.



"Oh, ho, madam!" said he; "so you thought to cheat me, did you? But,
really, this is very lucky! I have invited three ogres to dinner
to-morrow; these brats will make a nice dish."

He fetched a huge knife and began sharpening it, while the poor boys
fell on their knees and begged for mercy. But their prayers and
entreaties were useless. The ogre seized one of the children and was
just about to kill him, when his wife said--

"What in the world makes you take the trouble of killing them to-night?
Why don't you leave them till the morning? There will be plenty of time,
and they will be much fresher."

"That is very true," said the ogre, throwing down the knife. "Give them
a good supper, so that they may not get lean, and send them to bed."



Now, the ogre had seven young daughters, who were all about the same age
as Tom Thumb and his brothers. These young ogresses all slept together
in one large bed, and every one of them had a crown of gold on her head.
There was another bed of the same size in the room, and in this the
ogre's wife, having provided them all with nightcaps, put the seven
little boys.



But Tom Thumb was afraid that the ogre might change his mind in the
night, and kill him and his brothers while they were asleep. So he crept
softly out of bed, took off his brothers' nightcaps and his own, and
stole over to the bed where the young ogresses lay. He drew off their
crowns very gently, and put the nightcaps on their heads instead. Then
he put the crowns on his brothers' heads and his own, and got into bed
again.



In the middle of the night the ogre woke up, and began to be sorry that
he had put off killing the boys until the morning.

"Never put off till to-morrow what you can do to-day," he said; and,
jumping out of bed, he got his knife and walked stealthily to the room
where the boys were. He walked up to the bed, and they were all asleep
except Tom Thumb, who, however, kept his eyes fast shut, and did not
show that he was awake. The ogre touched their heads, one after another,
and feeling the crowns of gold, he said to himself:

"What a mistake I was going to make!" He then went to bed where his own
daughters were sleeping, and, feeling the nightcaps, he said:

"Oh, ho, here you are, my lads!" and in a moment he had killed them all.
He then went back to his own room to sleep till morning.



As soon as Tom Thumb heard him snoring, he roused his brothers, and told
them to dress quickly and follow him. He led them downstairs and out of
the house; and then, stealing on tiptoe through the garden, they jumped
down from the wall into the road and ran swiftly away.

In the morning, when the ogre found what a dreadful thing he had done,
he was terribly shocked.

"Fetch me my seven-league boots," he cried to his wife. "I will go and
catch those young vipers. They shall pay for this piece of work!" And,
drawing on the magic boots, the ogre set out.



He went striding over the country, stepping from mountain to mountain,
and crossing rivers as if they had been streams. The poor children
watched him coming in fear and trembling. They had found the way to
their father's home, and had very nearly reached it when they saw the
ogre racing after them.

Tom Thumb thought for a moment what was to be done. Then he saw a hollow
place under a large rock.

"Get in there," he said to his brothers.

When they were all in he crept in himself, but kept his eyes fixed on
the ogre, to see what he would do.



The ogre, seeing nothing of the children, sat down to rest himself on
the very rock under which the poor boys were hiding. He was tired with
his journey, and soon fell fast asleep, and began to snore so loudly
that the little fellows were terrified. Tom Thumb told his brothers to
creep out softly and run home; which they did. Then he crept up to the
ogre, pulled off the seven-league boots very gently and put them on his
own feet, for being fairy boots they could fit themselves to any foot,
however small.

As soon as Tom Thumb had put on the ogre's seven-league boots, he took
ten steps to the Palace, which was seventy miles off, and asked to see
the King. He offered to carry news to the King's army, which was then a
long way off; and so useful was he with his magic boots, that in a short
time he had made money enough to keep himself, his father, his mother
and his six brothers without the trouble of working for the rest of
their lives.

And now let us see what has become of the wicked ogre, whom we left
sleeping on the rock.

When he awoke he missed his seven-league boots, and set off for home
very angry.

On his way he had to cross a bog; and, forgetting that he was no longer
wearing his magic boots, he tried to cross it with one stride. But,
instead, he put his foot down in the middle and began to sink. As fast
as he tried to pull out one foot, the other sank deeper, until at last
he was swallowed up in the black slime--and that was the end of him.




THE THREE BEARS




There were once three bears who lived together in a little house in the
middle of a wood. One of them was a Little, Small, Wee Bear; one was a
Middle-Sized Bear; and the other was a Great, Huge Bear.

And they each had a pot to eat their porridge from: a little pot for the
Little, Small, Wee Bear; a middle-sized pot for the Middle-Sized Bear;
and a great big pot for the Great, Huge Bear.

And they each had a chair to sit on: a little chair for the Little,
Small, Wee Bear; a middle-sized chair for the Middle-Sized Bear; and a
great big chair for the Great, Huge Bear.

And they each had a bed to sleep in: a little bed for the Little, Small,
Wee Bear; a middle-sized bed for the Middle-Sized Bear; and a great big
bed for the Great, Huge Bear.



One day they made the porridge for their breakfast, and poured it into
their porridge-pots, and then went out in the wood for a walk while the
porridge for their breakfast was cooling. And while they were out
walking, a little Old Woman came to the house in the wood and peeped
inside.

First she peeped through the keyhole; then she peeped through the
window. Then she lifted the latch and peeped through the doorway; and,
seeing nobody in the house, she walked in. And when she saw the porridge
cooling on the table she was very pleased, for she had walked a long
way, and was getting hungry.

So first she tasted the porridge of the Great, Huge Bear, but that was
too hot. Then she tasted the porridge of the Middle-Sized Bear, but that
was too cold. And then she tasted the porridge of the Little, Small, Wee
Bear, and that was neither too hot nor too cold, but just right. And
she liked it so much that she ate it all up!

Then the little Old Woman sat down in the chair of the Great, Huge
Bear, but that was too hard. Then she sat down in the chair of the
Middle-Sized Bear, but that was too soft. Then she sat down in the
chair of the Little, Small, Wee Bear, and that was neither too hard
nor too soft, but just right. And she liked it so much that she sat
in it until suddenly the bottom came out, and she fell down plump
upon the ground.

Then the little Old Woman went upstairs into the bedroom, where the
three Bears slept. And first she lay down on the bed of the Great, Huge
Bear, but that was too high at the head for her. Then she lay down on
the bed of the Middle-Sized Bear, but that was too high at the foot for
her. So then she lay down on the bed of the Little, Small, Wee Bear, and
that was neither too high at the head nor too high at the foot, but just
right. And she liked it so much that she covered herself up and lay
there till she fell fast asleep!



By and by the three Bears came home to breakfast. Now, the little Old
Woman had left the spoon of the Great, Huge Bear standing in his
porridge pot.

    "=Somebody has been at my porridge!="

said the Great, Huge Bear, in his great, rough, gruff voice.

And when the Middle-Sized Bear looked, she saw that the spoon was
standing in her porridge-pot too.

    "=Somebody has been at my porridge!="

said the Middle-Sized Bear in her middle-sized voice.

Then the Little, Small, Wee Bear looked, and there was the spoon in
his porridge-pot; but the porridge was all gone.

    "=Somebody has been at my porridge and has eaten it all up!="

said the Little, Small, Wee Bear, in his little, small, wee voice.



Then the three Bears began to look about them. Now, the little Old Woman
had not put the hard cushion straight after she had sat in the chair of
the Great, Huge Bear.

    "=Somebody has been sitting in my chair!="

said the Great, Huge Bear, in his great, rough, gruff voice.

And the little Old Woman had squashed the soft cushion of the
Middle-Sized Bear.

    "=Somebody has been sitting in my chair!="

said the Middle-Sized Bear, in her middle-sized voice.

And you know what the little Old Woman had done to the third chair.

    "=Somebody has been sitting in my chair and has sat the bottom out!="

said the Little, Small, Wee Bear, in his little, small, wee voice.

Then the three Bears went upstairs into their bedroom. Now, the little
Old Woman had pulled the pillow of the Great, Huge Bear out of its
place.

    "=Somebody has been lying in my bed!="

said the Great, Huge Bear, in his great, rough, gruff voice.

And the little Old Woman had pulled the bolster of the Middle-Sized Bear
out of its place.

    "=Somebody has been lying in my bed!="

said the Middle-Sized Bear, in her middle-sized voice.

And when the Little, Small, Wee Bear came to look at his bed, there was
the bolster in its place, and the pillow in its place upon the bolster;
and upon the pillow was the little Old Woman's head, which was not in
its place, for she had no business there at all.

    "=Somebody has been lying in my bed--and here she is!="

cried the Little, Small, Wee Bear, in his little, small, wee voice.



The little Old Woman had heard in her sleep the great, rough, gruff
voice of the Great, Huge Bear, but she was so fast asleep that it seemed
to her no more than the roaring of the wind, or the rumbling of thunder.
And she had heard the middle-sized voice of the Middle-Sized Bear, but
it was only as if she had heard some one speaking in a dream. But when
she heard the little, small, wee voice of the Little, Small, Wee Bear,
it was so sharp and shrill that it woke her up at once. Up she started,
and when she saw the three Bears, on one side of the bed, she tumbled
out at the other, jumped out of the window and ran away through the wood
to her own home. And the three Bears never saw anything more of her.




THE LITTLE MATCH GIRL


It was dreadfully cold, it was snowing fast, and almost dark; the
evening--the last evening of the Old Year--was drawing in. But cold and
dark as it was, a poor little girl, with bare head and feet, was still
wandering about the streets. When she left her home she had slippers on,
but they were much too large for her--indeed, really, they belonged to
her mother--and had dropped off her feet while she was running very fast
across the road, to get out of the way of two carriages. One of the
slippers was not to be found; the other had been snatched up by a little
boy, who ran off with it thinking it might serve him as a doll's cradle.



So the little girl now walked on, her bare feet quite red and blue with
the cold. She carried a small bundle of matches in her hand, and a good
many more in her tattered apron. No one had bought any of them the
livelong day--no one had given her a single penny. Trembling with cold
and hunger she crept on, the picture of sorrow; poor little child!

The snowflakes fell on her long fair hair, which curled in such pretty
ringlets over her shoulders; but she thought not of her own beauty, nor
of the cold. Lights were glimmering through every window, and the savor
of roast goose reached her from several houses. It was New Year's Eve,
and it was of this that she thought.

In a corner formed by two houses, one of which projected beyond the
other, she sat down, drawing her little feet close under her, but in
vain--she could not warm them. She dared not go home, she had sold no
matches, earned not a single penny, and perhaps her father would beat
her. Besides her home was almost as cold as the street--it was an attic;
and although the larger of the many chinks in the roof were stopped up
with straw and rags, the wind and snow often came through.



Her hands were nearly dead with cold; one little match from her bundle
would warm them, perhaps, if she dare light it. She drew one out, and
struck it against the wall. Bravo! it was a bright, warm flame, and she
held her hands over it. It was quite an illumination for that poor
little girl--nay, call it rather a magic taper--for it seemed to her as
though she were sitting before a large iron stove with brass ornaments,
so beautifully blazed the fire within! The child stretched out her feet
to warm them also. Alas! in an instant the flame had died away, the
stove vanished, the little girl sat cold and comfortless, with the
burnt match in her hand.

A second match was struck against the wall. It kindled and blazed, and
wherever its light fell the wall became transparent as a veil--the
little girl could see into the room within. She saw the table spread
with a snow-white damask cloth, whereon were ranged shining china
dishes; the roast goose, stuffed with apples and dried plums, stood at
one end, smoking hot, and--which was pleasantest of all to see-the
goose, with knife and fork still in her breast, jumped down from the
dish, and waddled along the floor right up to the poor child. Then the
match went out, and only the thick, hard wall was beside her.

She kindled a third match. Again up shot the flame. And now she was
sitting under a most beautiful Christmas tree, far larger, and far more
prettily decked out, than the one she had seen last Christmas Eve
through the glass doors of the rich merchant's house. Hundreds of wax
tapers lighted up the green branches, and tiny painted figures, such as
she had seen in the shop windows, looked down from the tree upon her.
The child stretched out her hands towards them in delight, and in that
moment the light of the match was quenched. Still, however, the
Christmas candles burned higher and higher--she beheld them beaming
like stars in heaven. One of them fell, the lights streaming behind
it like a long, fiery tail.



"Now someone is dying," said the little girl softly, for she had been
told by her old grandmother--the only person who had ever been kind to
her, and who was now dead--that whenever a star falls an immortal spirit
returns to God who gave it.

She struck yet another match against the wall. It flamed up, and,
surrounded by its light, appeared before her that same dear grandmother,
gentle and loving as always, but bright and happy as she had never
looked during her lifetime.

"Grandmother!" exclaimed the child, "Oh, take me with you! I know you
will leave me as soon as the match goes out. You will vanish like the
warm fire in the stove, like the splendid New Year's feast, like the
beautiful large Christmas tree!" And she hastily lighted all the
remaining matches in the bundle, lest her grandmother should disappear.
And the matches burned with such a blaze of splendor, that noonday could
scarcely have been brighter. Never had the good old grandmother looked
so tall and stately, so beautiful and kind. She took the little girl in
her arms, and they both flew together--joyfully and gloriously they
flew--higher and higher, till they were in that place where neither
cold, nor hunger, nor pain is ever known--they were in Paradise.

But in the cold morning hour, crouching in the corner of the wall, the
poor little girl was found--her cheeks glowing, her lips smiling--frozen
to death on the last night of the Old Year. The New Year's sun shone on
the lifeless child. Motionless she sat there with the matches in her
lap, one bundle of them quite burnt out.

"She has been trying to warm herself, poor thing!" the people said; but
no one knew of the sweet visions she had beheld, or how gloriously she
and her grandmother were celebrating their New Year's festival.




BEAUTY AND THE BEAST




There was once a Merchant who had three daughters, the youngest of whom
was so beautiful that everybody called her Beauty. This made the two
eldest very jealous; and, as they were spiteful and bad-tempered by
nature, instead of loving their younger sister they felt nothing but
envy and hatred towards her.



After some years there came a terrible storm at sea, and most of the
Merchant's ships were sunk, and he became very poor. He and his family
were obliged to live in a very small house and do without the servants
and fine clothes to which they had been used. The two eldest sisters did
nothing but weep and lament for their lost fortune, but Beauty did her
best to keep the house bright and cheerful, so that her father might not
miss too much all the comfort and luxury to which he was used.

One day the Merchant told his daughters that he was going to take a
journey into foreign lands in the hope of recovering some of his
property. Then he asked them what they would like him to bring them
home in case he should be successful. The eldest daughter asked for
fine gowns and beautiful clothing; the second for jewels and gold
and silver trinkets.

"And Beauty--what would Beauty like?" asked the father.

Beauty was so happy and contented always that there was scarcely
anything for which she longed. She thought for a moment, then she said:



"I should like best of all a red rose!" The other sisters burst out
laughing and scoffed at Beauty's simple request; but her father promised
to bring her what she wanted. Then he said good-bye to his children and
set out on his travels.

He was away for nearly a year, and was so fortunate as to win back a
great part of his lost wealth. When the time came for his return, he
was easily able to buy the things his eldest daughters wished for; but
nowhere could he find a red rose to take home to Beauty, and at last he
was obliged to set off without one.

When he was within a few miles journey of his home, he lost himself in
a thick wood. Darkness came on, and he began to be afraid that he would
have to pass the night under a tree, when suddenly he saw a bright light
shining in the distance. He went towards it, and on his approach found
it came from a great castle that was set right in the heart of the
forest.

The Merchant made up his mind to ask if he might spend the night there;
but to his surprise, when he reached the door he found it set wide open,
and nobody about. After awhile, finding that no one came in answer to
his repeated knocking, he walked inside. There he found a table laid
with every delicacy, and, being very hungry, he sat down and made a
good repast. After he had finished his supper he laid himself down
on a luxurious couch, and in a few minutes was fast asleep.

In the morning, after eating a hearty breakfast, which he found prepared
for him, he left the mysterious castle, without having set eyes on a
single person. As he was passing through the garden he found himself in
an avenue of rose-trees, all covered with beautiful red roses.



"Here are such thousands of flowers," he said to himself, "that, surely,
one bud will not be missed;" and, thinking of Beauty, he broke off a
rose from one of the bushes.



Scarcely had he done so when he heard a terrible noise, and, turning
round, he saw coming towards him a hideous Beast, who exclaimed in an
awful tone:

"Ungrateful wretch! You have partaken of my hospitality, have eaten of
my food, have slept in my house, and in return you try to rob me of my
roses. For this theft you shall die!"

The Merchant fell on his knees and begged for pardon, but the Beast
would not listen to him.

"Either you must die now, or else you must swear to send me in your
stead the first living thing that meets you on your return home," he
said; and the Merchant, overcome with terror, and thinking that one of
his dogs would be sure to be the first creature to greet him, gave his
promise.

But to his horror and dismay, it was his youngest daughter, Beauty, who
first ran out to greet him on his return. She had seen him coming from
afar, and hastened to welcome him home.

She did not at first understand her father's grief at seeing her; but
when he told her the story of the Beast and his promise she did her
best to comfort him.

"Do not fear, dear father," she said, "perhaps the Beast will not prove
so terrible as he looks. He spared your life; he may spare mine, since I
have done him no harm."

Her father shook his head mournfully; but there was no help for it. He
had promised to send the Beast the first living creature that met him
on his return, so he was obliged to send Beauty herself in his place.



When he left Beauty at the palace of the Beast she found everything
prepared for her comfort and convenience. A beautiful bedchamber was
ready for her use; the rooms were filled with everything that she could
possibly want, and in the great hall of the castle a table was set with
every delicacy. And everywhere there were bowls full of red roses. No
servants were visible; but there was no lack of service, for invisible
hands waited upon her and attended to her every want. She had but to
wish, and whatever she wanted was at once placed before her.

Beauty was filled with astonishment at all this luxury and magnificence.

"Surely the Beast does not wish to harm me," she thought, "or he would
never have so ordered everything for my comfort." And she waited with a
good courage for the coming of the Lord of the Castle.

In the evening the beast appeared. He was certainly very terrible to
look at, and Beauty trembled at the sight of the hideous monster. But
she forced herself to appear brave, and, indeed, there was no cause for
her alarm. The Beast was kindness itself, and so gentle and respectful
in his attentions to her that Beauty soon lost all fear. She soon became
very fond of him, and would have been quite happy had it not been for
the thought of her father and sisters, and the grief which she knew her
father would be suffering on her account. The thought of his sorrow made
her sorrowful too; and one night, when the Beast came to visit her at
his usual hour, she was so sad that he asked her what was the matter.

Then Beauty begged him to let her go and visit her father. The Beast was
very unwilling to grant her request.

"If I let you go, I am afraid you will never come back to me," he said,
"and then I shall die of grief."

Beauty promised most earnestly to come back to him if he would only
allow her to spend a few days with her family; and at last the Beast
yielded to her entreaties.



He gave her a ring, saying:

"Put this on your little finger when you go to bed to-night, and wish;
and in the morning you will find yourself at home in your father's
house. But if you do not return to me at the end of a week, I shall
die of sorrow."

Beauty's father was almost overcome with joy at seeing his daughter
again, and he was delighted to hear of her happiness and good fortune.
But her two sisters--who in the meantime had married--were more jealous
than ever of their beautiful sister. They were not very happy with their
husbands, who were poor and not over-lovable; and they were very envious
of Beauty's clothes and of all the luxuries with which she told them she
was surrounded. They tried to think of a plan by which they could
prevent their sister from enjoying her good fortune.

"Let us keep her beyond the week that the Beast has allowed her," they
said; "then, doubtless, he will be so angry that he will kill her."

So they pretended to be very fond of Beauty, and when the time came for
her return, they overwhelmed her with tears and caresses, begging her
not to leave them, and to stay at least one more day with them. Beauty
was distressed at their grief, and at last she consented to stay just
one more day; though her heart misgave her sorely when she thought of
the poor Beast.

That night, as she lay in bed, she had a dream. She dreamt that she saw
the Beast dying of sorrow at her forgetfulness; and so real did it seem
that she woke up in an agony of dismay.



"How could I have been so cruel and ungrateful," she cried. "I promised
faithfully that I would return at the end of the week. What will he
think of me for breaking my promise!"

Hastily rising from bed, she searched for the ring the Beast had given
her. Then putting it on her little finger she wished to be at the Palace
of the Beast again. In a moment she found herself there; and quickly
putting on her clothes she hurried out to look for the Beast. She
searched through room after room; but nowhere could she find him. At
last she ran out into the garden; and there, on a plot of grass, where
he and she had often sat together, she found him lying as if dead upon
the ground.

With a bitter cry she sank on her knees beside the poor Beast.

"Oh, Beast; my dear, dear Beast!" she cried. "How could I have been so
cruel and wicked and unkind? He has died of sorrow as he said he would!"
And the tears fell down from her eyes as she spoke. Overcome with grief
and remorse, she stooped down and tenderly kissed the ugly Beast.

In a moment there was a sudden noise, and Beauty was startled to find
that the ugly Beast had vanished. The Beast was a beast no longer, but a
handsome Prince, who knelt at her feet, thanking her for having broken
his enchantment.

"A wicked fairy," he said, "condemned me to keep the form of a beast
until a beautiful maiden should forget my ugliness and kiss me. You, by
your love and tenderness, have broken the spell and released me from my
horrible disguise. Now, thanks to you, I can take my proper form again."
And then he begged Beauty to become his bride.

So Beauty married the Prince who had been a Beast, and they lived
together in the castle and ruled over the Prince's country, and were
happy ever after.






THE STORY OF CINDERELLA




There was once a rich man, whose wife died, leaving him with one little
girl. After some years, hoping to give his child a mother's love and
care, he married again, this time a widow, with two grown-up daughters.
But his second wife was haughty and proud, and her two daughters were
even worse than their mother; and the poor little girl had a very
unhappy time with her new relations. Her stepsisters were jealous of
her, for she was very beautiful, and they themselves were plain and
ugly. They did all they could to make her miserable; and, at length,
through their wicked spite and envy, her life became a burden to her.
The poor child was sent to live in the kitchen, where she had to do all
the rough and dirty work; and because she was always dressed in rags,
and sat beside the cinders in the grate, they called her Cinderella.

It happened that the King of the country had an only son. He was very
anxious that the Prince should be married; so he gave a great ball, and
invited all the grand ladies in the country to come to it. It was to be
a very splendid affair, lasting for three nights, and people were very
eager to be invited to it, for it was known that the Prince would choose
his bride from among the ladies present.

Cinderella's sisters received invitations; and from the day they arrived
they talked of nothing but of what they should wear, for each of them
secretly hoped that she would be chosen as the Prince's bride.

When the great day came at last, they began to dress for the ball
directly after breakfast. Cinderella had to help them; and they kept
her busy all day doing their hair, and running messages, and helping
them to lace up their fine dresses.

When Cinderella saw their beautiful clothes she wished that she could
go to the ball as well; but when she timidly asked if she might, they
laughed in mocking scorn.

"You go to the ball!" they cried. "What would you do at the ball, with
your rags and tatters and your dirty face? No, no, Cinderella, go back
to your seat amongst the ashes--that is the place for a little kitchen
girl like you!"

So the two sisters and their mother drove away in a carriage and pair to
the King's palace, and Cinderella was left behind. She sat down on the
hearth before the kitchen fire and began to cry softly to herself,
because she felt so very lonely and miserable.

As she sat there in the dusk, with the firelight dancing over her, and
her face buried in her hands, she heard a voice calling:

"Cinderella, Cinderella!" and with a start she looked up to see who it
could be.

There on the hearth in front of her stood an old woman, leaning upon a
stick. She was dressed in a long red cloak, and she wore high-heeled
shoes and a tall black hat.



Where she had come from Cinderella could not imagine. She certainly had
not come in through the door, nor yet through the window for both were
shut.

Cinderella was so surprised to see her that she stopped crying, and
stared at her in astonishment.

"What are you crying for?" asked the old woman.

"Because my mother and sisters have gone to the ball, and I am left here
all alone," said Cinderella.

"Do you want to go to the ball, too!" said the old lady.

"Yes, but it is no good; I have nothing but rags to wear," sobbed poor
Cinderella.

"Well, well, be a good child and don't cry any more," said the old
woman, briskly. "I am your Fairy Godmother, and if you do what I tell
you, perhaps you shall go after all. Run out into the garden and bring
me in a pumpkin!"

Cinderella ran out into the garden and brought in the biggest pumpkin
that she could find.

"Now go and fetch the mouse-trap out of the cellar," said her Godmother,
and Cinderella hurried to get it. There were six mice in the trap, and
the old woman harnessed them to the pumpkin, put a rat on the top to
drive them, and two lizards behind, and then waved her wand over them.
Immediately the pumpkin turned into a gorgeous coach, the mice into six
beautiful horses, the rat into a stately coachman, and the lizards into
tall footmen, with powdered hair and silk stockings. "There," said the
old woman; "there's a carriage to take you to the ball."



"Alas," said Cinderella, "how can I go to the ball? I have nothing to
wear but this!" and she touched her ragged frock.

"Is that all?" said the Fairy Godmother. Once more she waved her wand,
and Cinderella's rags turned into the most beautiful dress in the world,
all shining with gold and silver threads and covered with costly gems.
In her hair was a circlet of pearls, and her feet were shod with the
prettiest and daintiest pair of glass slippers that ever were seen.

"Now," said the Fairy Godmother, "now you can go to the ball. But mind
you come away before the clock strikes twelve, for should you linger
beyond that hour, all your splendor will vanish, and your dress will
turn into rags again."

Cinderella promised to obey her Godmother's instructions. Then she got
into the beautiful coach. The footman shut the door, the coachman
whipped up the horses, and away she went to the ball.

When she arrived there was a great stir in the Palace. So lovely a face
and so costly and rich a dress had never before been seen, and everybody
thought it must be some great Princess arrived from foreign lands.



All the courtiers and other guests stood back to let her pass, and when
the Prince caught sight of her he fell in love with her on the spot. He
danced with her the whole of the evening, and people thought there was
no doubt as to whom he would choose for his bride.

At a quarter to twelve, Cinderella, remembering her Godmother's
instructions, said good-bye to the Prince and came away.

She arrived home just as the clock struck twelve. At once the coachman
and footmen turned back into rats and mice, and the coach into a
pumpkin; and when the sisters came home a little later, there was
Cinderella, dressed in her old shabby frock, sitting in her usual place
amongst the cinders.

The two ugly sisters were full of the strange Princess who had come to
the ball. They talked about her all the next day, little dreaming that
all the while the beautiful lady was their despised sister Cinderella.

In the evening after they had gone again to the ball, the Fairy
Godmother made her appearance. Once more Cinderella drove to the Palace
in her coach and six; this time arrayed in a still more gorgeous and
beautiful dress; and once more the Prince danced with her all the
evening.



But when the third night came Cinderella was enjoying herself so much
that she quite forgot what her Fairy Godmother had said, until suddenly
she heard the clock begin to strike twelve. She remembered that as soon
as it finished striking, all her fine clothes would turn to rags again;
and, jumping up in alarm, she ran out of the room. The Prince ran after
her, trying to overtake her; and Cinderella in her fright ran so fast
that she left one of her little glass slippers on the floor behind her.

The Prince stopped to pick it up, and this gave Cinderella time to
escape; but she was only just in time. Just as she was crossing the
Palace yard, the clock finished striking, and immediately all her finery
vanished; and there she was, dressed in her old ragged frock again.

When the Prince came out upon the Palace steps, he could see no sign of
the lovely Princess. The guards at the gate told him that nobody at all
had passed that way, except a little ragged kitchenmaid; and the Prince
had to go back to the ball with only a little glass slipper to remind
him of the beautiful lady with whom he was so desperately in love.

The next day the King sent out all his heralds and trumpeters with a
Proclamation, saying that the Prince would marry the lady whose foot
the slipper fitted. But though all the ladies in the land tried on the
slipper it would fit none of them--their feet were all too big!

At last the heralds came to the house where Cinderella lived. The eldest
stepsister tried the slipper on first, but it was quite impossible for
her to get her foot into it, for her great toe was too big. Then her
mother, who was watching eagerly, fetched a carving-knife.



"Be quick, cut the toe off," she said; "what does it matter if you are
lame--if you are the Prince's bride you will always ride in a carriage!"

So the eldest sister cut off her big toe, but it was no use, the slipper
would not fit, and at last she was obliged to hand it to her sister.

But the other sister had no better luck. She did, indeed, get her toes
inside, but her foot was much too long, and her heel stuck out behind.
The mother urged her to cut it off.

"What does it matter?" she said. "If you are the Prince's bride you will
never need to walk any more."

But although she cut her heel off, the slipper was still too small; and
at length she, too, had to give up the attempt to force her foot into
it.

Then Cinderella came shyly out from behind the door where she had been
standing out of sight, and asked if she might try on the slipper. Her
stepmother and sisters were very angry, and were about to drive her away
with blows, but the herald stopped them.

"The Prince wishes every woman in the land to try on this slipper," he
said; and asking Cinderella to sit on a chair, he knelt down and tried
the slipper on her foot.

And it fitted her exactly!

While everyone stood and stared in astonishment, Cinderella drew from
her pocket the other slipper and put it on. No sooner had she done so
than her ragged frock changed into the beautiful ball dress again, and
she stood up before them all--the beautiful lady with whom the Prince
had fallen in love at the ball.

The Prince was overjoyed to find her again; and they were married at
once with much pomp amid great rejoicings.

As for the wicked sisters they were so jealous that they both turned
green with envy. They grew uglier and uglier every day, until at last
they grew so dreadfully ugly that nobody could bear to look at them any
longer. But Cinderella became more and more beautiful, and lived happily
with the Prince for ever afterwards.




JACK THE GIANT KILLER




In the reign of King Arthur there lived in the County of Cornwall a
worthy farmer, who had an only son, named Jack. Jack was strong and
brave and very daring, and was never backward when danger was in the
way.

Now, in those days there lived a huge giant in a gloomy cavern on St.
Michael's Mount, which rises out of the sea near the shores of Cornwall.
The Cornish people had suffered greatly from his thefts and pillaging;
for he used to wade through the sea to the mainland, and carry off half
a dozen or more of their oxen at a time.

At last Jack made up his mind to destroy this monster. He took a horn,
a shovel, a pickaxe, and a dark lantern, and one winter's evening swam
over the sea to the Mount. Then he set to work, and before morning had
dug a great pit. He covered it carefully over with sticks and straw,
and strewed some earth on the top to make it look like solid ground.
And then he blew his horn so loudly that the Giant awoke, and came
out roaring like thunder:

"You impudent villain--you shall pay dearly for disturbing my rest. I
will broil you for my breakfast!"

But almost as he spoke, he tumbled headlong into the pit.

"Oh, ho, Mr. Giant!" said Jack. "How is your appetite now! Will nothing
serve you for breakfast but broiling poor Jack?" Then he struck the
giant such a blow on the head with a pickaxe that he killed him.

When the Justices of Cornwall heard of this valiant deed, they sent
for Jack, and declared that he should always be called Jack the Giant
Killer; and they gave him a sword, and a belt upon which was written,
in letters of gold:

    "This is the valiant Cornishman
     Who slew the giant Cormoran."



There was another giant in England called Blunderbore, who vowed to take
revenge on Jack for this exploit. One day, as Jack was passing through a
wood on a journey to Wales, he fell asleep by the side of a fountain.
The Giant, coming along, found him there; and, seeing by the writing on
the belt who Jack was, he lifted him on his shoulder and carried him off
to his castle.

When Jack awoke and found himself in the clutches of Blunderbore he was
terribly frightened. The giant carried him into a room and locked him
up, while he went to fetch another giant who lived close by to help him
eat Jack for dinner. While he was gone, Jack heard dreadful shrieks and
groans from different parts of the castle, and soon after he heard a
mournful voice saying:

    "Haste, valiant stranger, haste away,
     Lest you become the giant's prey.
     On his return he'll bring another,
     Still more savage than his brother;
     A horrid, cruel monster, who
     Before he kills will torture you!"

Poor Jack looked out of the window, which was just over the gate of the
castle, and saw two giants coming along arm in arm.



"Now," thought he, "death or freedom is at hand." There happened to
be two strong cords in the room, and Jack made a large noose with a
slip-knot in each of them. Then, just as the giants were coming through
the gate he threw the ropes over their heads, and, fastening the other
ends to a beam in the ceiling, he pulled the ropes with all his might
until he had nearly strangled the giants. Then he drew his sword and
slipped down the ropes and killed them both.

Next Jack took the keys from Giant Blunderbore and searched through the
castle. In one of the rooms he found three ladies who told him that
their husbands had been killed by the giant, who had afterwards
condemned them to be starved to death.



Jack gave them the castle and all the riches it contained to make some
amends for the dreadful pains they had suffered, and then went on his
way.

After traveling some days, he lost himself in a lonely valley; but, when
he had wandered about some while, he at length succeeded in finding a
large house. He went up to it and knocked loudly at the gate, when, to
his great horror, a monstrous giant with two heads came forth. He spoke
very civilly, however, and took Jack into the house, leading him to a
room where there was a good bed, in which he could pass the night.

Jack took off his clothes; but, though he was very tired, he could not
go to sleep. Presently he heard the giant walking about in the
bedchamber, which was the next room, saying to himself:

    "Though here you lodge with me this night;
     You shall not see the morning light;
     My club shall dash your brains out quite."

When he heard this, Jack got out of bed, and, taking a large, thick
piece of wood, he laid it in his own place in the bed, and hid himself
in a dark corner of the room.

In the middle of the night, the giant came with his great club, and
struck several heavy blows upon the bed. Then he went off, thinking he
had broken all Jack's bones.

Early next morning Jack walked into the giant's room and thanked him
for the night's lodging. The giant was terribly startled to see him,
and stammered out:

"Oh, dear me! Is it you? Pray, how did you sleep last night? Did you
hear or see anything to disturb you?"

"Nothing worth speaking of, thank you," answered Jack, carelessly. "A
rat, I believe, gave me three or four slaps with his tail; but that was
all."

The giant said nothing; but went and fetched two bowls of hasty pudding
for their breakfast.

Jack did not wish the giant to think that he could not eat as much as
himself, so he contrived to fasten a leathern bag inside his coat. He
then managed to slip the pudding into this bag, while pretending to eat
it. When breakfast was done, he said to the giant:

"Now I will show you a fine trick. I can cure all wounds with a touch.
You shall see an example." He then took a knife, ripped up the leathern
bag, and all the hasty pudding tumbled out upon the floor.

"Ods splutter hur nails!" cried the giant, who was ashamed to be outdone
by such a little fellow. "Hur can do that hurself!" and, snatching up
the knife, he plunged it into his stomach and fell down dead.



After this, Jack went farther on his journey. In a few days he met King
Arthur's only son, who was traveling into Wales to deliver a beautiful
lady from the power of a wicked magician. Jack attached himself to the
Prince, and they traveled on together.

The Prince was very generous, and soon gave away all the money he
possessed.

After having parted with his last penny to an old beggar-woman, he was
very uneasy as to where they were to pass the night.



"Sir," said Jack, "two miles farther on there lives a giant with three
heads, who can fight five hundred men at once and make them fly. I will
go on and visit him--do you wait here until I return."

Jack rode on to the gates of the castle, and gave a loud knock. The
giant, with a voice like thunder, roared out:

"Who is there?"

"No one but your poor Cousin Jack."

"Well, what news, Cousin Jack?"

"Dear Uncle, I have bad news for you. Here is the King's son coming
with two thousand men to kill you!"

"Cousin Jack, this is bad news indeed! But I have a large cellar
underground, where I shall hide myself, and you shall lock, bolt
and bar me in until the King's son is gone."

So Jack locked, bolted and barred the giant in the cellar, and then
went back and fetched the Prince, and they feasted and made merry,
and spent the night very comfortably in the castle.



In the morning Jack gave the Prince gold and silver from the giant's
treasury. Then the Prince set forth on his journey, while Jack let
the giant out of the cellar.

The giant thanked Jack very much for saving him, and asked what he
should give him as a reward?

"Why, good Uncle," said Jack, "I desire nothing but the coat and cap,
with the rusty sword and the slippers which are hanging beside the
bed."

"Take them," said the giant, "and keep them for my sake. They will be
very useful to you. The coat will make you invisible; the cap will give
you knowledge; the sword will cut through anything, no matter what it
may be, and the shoes are of vast swiftness."

Jack took the gifts, thanked the giant, and then quickly caught up with
the Prince.

After a few day's further journey they reached the dwelling of the
beautiful lady whom the Prince had come to rescue.

She received the Prince very graciously and made a feast for him. When
it was ended she rose, and, taking her handkerchief, said:

"My lord; to-morrow morning I command you to tell me on whom I have
bestowed this handkerchief--or else lose your head."



The Prince went to bed very mournfully; but Jack put on the cap of
knowledge, which told him that the lady was forced by the power of
enchantment to meet the wicked magician every night in the forest.

He, therefore, put on his coat of darkness, and his shoes of swiftness,
and was there before her. When the lady came, she gave the handkerchief
to the magician. Jack with his sword of sharpness cut off his head with
one blow; and the enchantment was ended in a minute.

The next day the lady was married to the Prince, and soon after went
with her husband to the Court of King Arthur, where Jack was made one
of the Knights of the Round Table for his heroism.



Very soon Jack set off in search of new adventures. On the third day of
his travel he came to a wide forest. Hardly had he entered it when he
heard dreadful shrieks and cries, and soon he saw a monstrous giant
dragging along by the hair of their heads a handsome knight and a
beautiful lady. Their tears and cries melted Jack's heart. He alighted
from his horse, and put on his invisible coat, and immediately attacked
the giant. He could not reach up to the giant's body; so, taking a
mighty blow, he cut off both the monster's legs just below the garter,
so that he fell full length upon the ground. Then Jack set his foot upon
his neck and plunged his sword into the giant's body.



The knight and the lady, overjoyed, begged Jack to come to their house
to refresh himself after this fight; but Jack, hearing that the giant
had a brother who was more cruel and wicked even than himself, would
not rest until he had also destroyed him.

Soon he came in sight of the cavern where the giants lived. There was
the other giant sitting on a huge block of timber, with a knotted iron
club lying by his side. Jack, in his coat of darkness, was quite
invisible. He drew close up to the giant and struck a blow at his head
with his sword of sharpness; but he missed his aim and only cut off his
nose. The giant roared with pain, and his roars were like claps of
thunder. He took up his iron club and began to lay about him, but not
being able to see Jack, he could not hit him; for Jack slipped nimbly
behind, and jumping upon the block of wood, stabbed the giant in the
back; and after a few howls, the monster dropped down dead.

Having thus killed the two monsters Jack entered the cave to search for
the treasure. One room contained a great boiling cauldron and a dining
table, where the giants feasted. Another part of the cave was barred
with iron and was full of miserable men and women whom the giants had
imprisoned. Jack set them all free and divided the treasure among them.

Jack cut off the giant's head, and sent it with the head of his brother
to the Court of King Arthur; then he returned to the house of the knight
and his lady.

He was received with the greatest joy; and the knight gave a grand feast
in his honor. When all the company was gathered together, the knight
presented Jack with a ring, on which was engraved the picture of the
giant dragging the knight and the lady by the hair, with this motto
round it--

    "Behold, in dire distress were we,
       Under a giant's fierce command,
     But gained our lives and liberty
       From valiant Jack's victorious hand."

But while the merriment was at its height, a herald rushed into the room
and told the company that Thundel, a savage giant with two heads, had
heard of the death of his two kinsmen, and was come to take his revenge
on Jack. The guests trembled with terror and fright; but Jack only drew
his sword and said, "Let him come!"



The knight's house was surrounded by a moat over which there was a
drawbridge. Jack set men to work to cut the bridge on both sides, nearly
to the middle, and then, dressed in his magic coat, went out to meet the
giant. As the giant came along, although he could not see Jack, yet he
could tell that someone was near for he cried out:

    "Fa, fe, fi, fo, fum,
     I smell the blood of an Englishman
     Be he alive, or be he dead,
     I'll grind his bones to make my bread."

"Say you so, my friend," cried Jack. "You are indeed a monstrous
miller!"

"Ah!" cried the giant; "you are the villain that killed my kinsmen! I
will tear you with my teeth, and grind your bones to powder!"



"You must catch me first!" said Jack. Then he threw off his coat and put
on his shoes of swiftness, and began to run, the giant following him
like a walking castle. Jack led him round and round the house, and then
he ran over the drawbridge, while the giant rushed after him with his
club. But when he came to the middle of the bridge, where it had been
cut on both sides, his great weight broke it, and he tumbled into the
water.

Jack now got a cart rope and flung it over his two heads, and then, by
the help of a team of horses, drew him to the edge of the moat, where
he cut off his heads.

Once again, Jack set out in search of new adventures. He went over
fields and dales without meeting with any, until he came to the foot of
a high mountain. Here was a little, lonely house; and when he knocked at
the door it was opened by an old man with a beard as white as snow. This
old man was a good hermit, and when Jack had eaten well, he said:



"My son, I know that you are the famous conqueror of giants. I know, at
the top of this mountain there is an enchanted castle, kept by a giant
named Galligantes, who, by the help of a magician, gets many knights
into his power--whom he changes into beasts. Above all, I lament the
hard fate of a duke's daughter, whom they have changed into a deer. Many
knights have tried to destroy the enchantment, yet none have been able
to do so, because of two fiery griffins who guard the gates of the
castle. But as you, my son, have an invisible coat, you may pass them by
without being seen. On the gates of the castle you will find engraved
the means by which the enchantment may be broken."

Jack promised that in the morning he would risk his life in an endeavor
to break the enchantment; and, after a sound sleep, he arose early and
set out on his attempt.

He passed by the fiery griffins without the least fear of danger; for
they could not see him, because of his invisible coat.

On the castle gate he found a golden trumpet hanging, under which were
written these words--

    "Whoever can this trumpet blow,
     Shall cause the giant's overthrow."

Jack seized the golden trumpet and blew a mighty blast, which made the
gates fly open and shook the castle to its foundations. The giant and
the magician, knowing that their end was now near, stood biting their
thumbs and shaking with terror. Jack, with his magic sword, soon killed
the giant, and the magician was carried off by a whirlwind. The castle
vanished away like smoke, and the duke's daughter and all the knights
and lovely ladies who had been turned into birds and beasts returned to
their proper shape.

Jack's fame rang through the whole country, and the King gave him a
large estate to reward him for all his brave and knightly deeds. And
Jack married the duke's daughter, and lived in joy and contentment for
the rest of his days.




JACK AND THE BEANSTALK




Jack was an idle, lazy boy who would do no work to support his widowed
mother; and at last they both came to such poverty that the poor woman
had to sell her cow to buy food to keep them from starving. She sent
Jack to market with the cow, telling him to be sure and sell it for a
good price.



As Jack was going along the road to market he met a butcher. The butcher
offered to buy the cow in exchange for a hatful of colored beans. Jack
thought the beans looked very pretty, and he was glad to be saved the
long hot walk to market; so he struck the bargain on the spot and went
back to his mother with the beans, while the butcher went off with the
cow.

But the poor widow was very disappointed. She scolded her son for an
idle, lazy, good-for-nothing boy, and flung the beans out of the window
in a passion.



Now the beans were magic beans, and the next morning, when Jack awoke,
he found some of them had taken root in the night and had grown so tall,
that they reached right up into the sky.

Jack was full of wonder and curiosity; and, being fond of adventure and
excitement, he set out at once to climb the beanstalk, to see what was
up at the top of it.

And he climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed, and he
climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed--until at last he climbed right
up to the very tiptop of the beanstalk.

Then he found himself standing in a strange country. In the distance
he could see a big castle; and, as he was hot and tired with his long
climb, he thought he would go and ask for something to eat and drink.

He had not gone very far before he met a fairy, who told him that the
castle belonged to a wicked ogre, who had killed and eaten a great
number of people.



"It was he who killed your father," she said. "And it is your duty to do
your utmost to destroy the wicked monster. Go now, and see what you can
do. If you can carry off any of his treasures you are at liberty to do
so--for none of them really belongs to him. He has taken them all by
force from the people whom he has robbed and killed."

Jack was delighted at the idea of this adventure, and set off in high
spirits towards the castle.

The castle was farther off than he had thought, and by the time he
reached the gates, it was so late that he made up his mind to ask
for a night's lodging. There was a woman standing in the doorway;
but when Jack made his request, she was very frightened, and said--

"Indeed, I dare not take you in and give you food and lodging. My
husband is an ogre who lives on human flesh. If he were to find you
here, he would think nothing of eating you up in three mouthfuls. I
advise you to go away at once, before he comes home."

But when she saw how tired and hungry Jack really was, she took him into
the house and gave him plenty to eat and drink. While Jack was eating
his food in the kitchen there came a loud knocking at the door. The
ogre's wife, in a great flurry, hid Jack in the oven, and then hurried
to let her husband in. Jack peeped through the oven door, and saw a
terrible-looking ogre, who came stamping into the kitchen, and said in
a voice like thunder--

"Wife, I smell fresh meat!"

"It is only the people you are fattening in the dungeon," said the wife.

So the ogre sat down and ate his supper. After supper, he commanded his
wife to bring him his money-bags. He then began to count his
money--thousands and thousands of pieces of gold and silver.



Jack wished he could take some of this money home to his mother; and,
presently, when the ogre fell asleep, he crept out of his hiding-place,
and hoisting the bags upon his shoulder, slipped quietly away with them.
The ogre was snoring so loudly that it sounded like the wind in the
chimney on a stormy night. So he never heard the little noise Jack
made, and Jack got safely away and escaped down the beanstalk.

His mother was overjoyed to see him, for she had been very anxious about
him when he did not come home the night before; and she was delighted
with the bags of money, which were enough to keep them in comfort and
luxury for some time.

For many months Jack and his mother lived happily together; but after a
while the money came to an end, and Jack made up his mind to climb the
beanstalk again, and carry off some more of the ogre's treasures. So one
morning he got up early, put on a different suit of clothes, so that the
ogre's wife should not recognize him, and set out to climb the
beanstalk.

[: _Jack and the Beanstalk_
Down Came the Beanstalk, Down Came the Ogre]

And he climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed, and he
climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed--until at last he climbed to the
very top and found himself in the ogre's country again.

When he reached the castle the ogre's wife was again standing in the
doorway. But when Jack asked for a night's lodging, she said she dared
not give him one, for only a few months before she had taken in a poor
boy who seemed half dead with fatigue and hunger, and in return for her
kindness, he had stolen some of her husband's money and run away in the
night.

But Jack begged so hard that at last she relented. She gave him a good
supper and hid him in a closet before her husband came home.

Presently there was a great noise outside and heavy footsteps that shook
the castle to its foundations. It was the ogre come home. As soon as he
entered the kitchen, he sniffed suspiciously, and said:

"I smell fresh meat!"

"It is only the crows on the housetops," said his wife. "They have
brought home a piece of carrion for their young."

After supper, the ogre told his wife to fetch his hen. This hen was a
very wonderful bird. Whenever the ogre said "Lay" she laid an egg of
solid gold. Jack thought that if he could only get this wonderful hen
to take home to his mother, they would never want any more. So when
the ogre fell asleep--as he did after a little while--he came out of
the closet, and, seizing the hen in his arms, made off with her. The
hen squawked, but the ogre's snoring was like the roaring of the sea
when the tide is coming in, and Jack got safely down the beanstalk.

The hen laid so many golden eggs that Jack and his mother became quite
rich and prosperous; and there was really no need for Jack to go again
to the ogre's country. But he liked the danger and excitement, and he
remembered that the fairy had told him to take as many of the ogre's
treasures as he could; and at last, without saying a word to anybody,
he started off once more to climb the magic beanstalk.

And he climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed, and he
climbed, and he climbed, and he climbed--until at last he reached the
very tiptop, and stood in the ogre's country.

This time when he reached the castle he began to be afraid that the
ogre's wife really would not let him in.

"Indeed and indeed, I dare not," she said. "Twice lately have I
given shelter to a wayfaring youth, and each time he stole some of
my husband's treasures, and made off with them. Now my husband has
forbidden me, on pain of instant death, to give food or lodging
to any traveler."

But Jack pleaded and pleaded, and at last the good-natured woman, moved
to pity by his travel-stained appearance, gave way and let him into the
castle.



When the ogre came home, the wife hid Jack in the copper. As usual, the
ogre's first words were:

"Wife, wife, I smell fresh meat!" And, in spite of all his wife could
say, he insisted upon searching all round the room. Jack was in a
terrible fright whilst he was hunting: but fortunately, he forgot to
look in the copper, and after a time he sat down to his supper.

When supper was over, the ogre told his wife to fetch his harp. Jack
peeped out of the copper and saw the harp brought in and set down
before the ogre. It was marvelously made; and when the ogre said "Play!"
it played the finest music without being touched. Jack was enchanted,
for he had never before heard such wonderful music, and he felt that he
must have the harp for his own.

The ogre was soon lulled to sleep by the sweet sound of the harp; and
when he was snoring heavily, Jack crept out of the copper, and taking up
the harp was about to make off with it. But the harp was a fairy harp,
and it called out loudly: "Master, master, master;" and, although the
ogre was snoring so noisily that it was like the sound of a hundred
dragons roaring at once, yet to Jack's dismay and horror he heard the
voice of his harp, and, starting to his feet with a bellow of anger,
rushed after the daring thief.

Jack ran faster than he had ever run in his life before--still carrying
the precious harp--while the ogre ran after him, shouting and roaring
and making such a noise that it sounded like a thousand thunder storms
all going at once. If he had not drunk so much wine for supper, the ogre
must very soon have caught Jack; but as it was, the wine had got into
his head, and so he could not run nearly so fast as usual, and Jack
reached the beanstalk just in front of him.

It was a very close shave. Jack slid down the beanstalk at his top
speed, calling at the top of his voice for his mother to fetch him an
axe. The ogre came tumbling down the beanstalk after him; but Jack
seized the axe and chopped the beanstalk off close to the root. Down
came the beanstalk, down came the ogre, and falling headlong into the
garden he was killed on the spot.

After this, Jack quite gave up his lazy, idle ways, and he and his
mother, with the magic hen and the wonderful harp, lived in happiness
and prosperity the rest of their lives.






DICK WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT




In the reign of King Edward the Third there was a poor orphan boy, named
Dick Whittington, living in a country village a long way from London. He
was a sharp little lad, and the stories that he heard of London being
paved with gold made him long to visit that city.

One day, a large wagon and eight horses, with bells at their heads,
drove through the village. Dick thought it must be going to London, so
he asked the driver to let him walk by the side of the wagon. As soon as
the driver heard that poor Dick had neither father nor mother, and saw
by his ragged clothes that he could not be worse off than he was, he
told him he might go if he would; so they set off together.

Dick got safely to London, and was in such a hurry to see the fine
streets paved with gold, that he ran through many of them, thinking
every moment to come to those that were paved with gold; for Dick had
seen a guinea three times in his own little village, and remembered what
a lot of money it brought in change; so he thought he had nothing to do
but to take up some little bits of pavement, and he would then have as
much money as he could wish for. Poor Dick ran till he was tired, and
had quite forgotten his friend the driver. At last, finding it grow
dark, and that every way he turned he saw nothing but dirt instead of
gold, he sat down in a dark corner, and cried himself to sleep. Next
morning, being very hungry, he got up and walked about, and asked
everybody he met to give him a halfpenny to keep him from starving.
At last, a good-natured-looking gentleman saw how hungry he looked.

"Why don't you go to work, my lad?" said he.

"I would," answered Dick, "but I do not know how to get any."

"If you are willing," said the gentleman, "come with me;" and so
saying, he took him to a hayfield, where Dick worked briskly, and lived
merrily till the hay was all made. After this, he found himself as badly
off as before; and being almost starved again, he laid himself down at
the door of Mr. Fitzwarren, a rich merchant. Here the cook, an
ill-tempered woman, called out to poor Dick:

"What business have you there, you lazy rogue? If you do not take
yourself away, we will see how you like a sousing of some dish-water I
have here, that is hot enough to make you jump."



At this time Mr. Fitzwarren himself came home to dinner; and when he saw
a dirty ragged boy lying at the door, he said, in a kind and gentle
voice:

"Why do you lie there, my lad? you seem old enough to work; I am afraid
you are lazy."

"No, sir," said Dick to him. "I would work with all my heart; but I do
not know anybody, and I am sick for want of food."

"Poor fellow!" answered Mr. Fitzwarren; "get up, and let me see what
ails you."

Dick tried to rise, but was too weak to stand, for he had not eaten
anything for three days. So the kind merchant ordered him to be taken
into the house, and have a good dinner given to him; and to be kept to
do what dirty work he could for the cook.

Dick would have lived happily in this good family, if it had not been
for the ill-natured cook, who was finding fault and scolding him from
morning till night; and, besides, she was so fond of basting, that,
when she had no roast meat to baste, she would be basting poor Dick.

But though the cook was so ill-tempered, the footman was quite
different. He had lived in the family many years, and was an elderly
man, and very kind-hearted. He had once a little son of his own, who
died when about the age of Dick; so he could not help feeling pity for
the poor boy, and sometimes gave him a halfpenny to buy gingerbread or
a top. The footman was fond of reading, and used often in the evening to
entertain the other servants with some amusing book. Little Dick took
pleasure in hearing this good man, which made him wish very much to
learn to read too; so the next time the footman gave him a halfpenny,
he bought a little book with it; and with the footman's help, Dick soon
learnt his letters, and afterwards to read.



About this time, Miss Alice, Mr. Fitzwarren's daughter, was going out
one morning for a walk, and Dick was told to put on a suit of good
clothes that Mr. Fitzwarren gave him, and walk behind her. As they went,
Miss Alice saw a poor woman with one child in her arms and another on
her back. She pulled out her purse and gave the woman some money; but as
she was putting it into her pocket again, she dropped it on the ground
and walked on. It was lucky that Dick was behind, and saw what she had
done, for he picked up the purse and gave it to her again. Another time,
when Miss Alice was sitting with the window open and amusing herself
with a favorite parrot, it suddenly flew away to the branch of a high
tree, where all the servants were afraid to venture after it. As soon as
Dick heard of this, he pulled off his coat, and climbed up the tree as
nimbly as a squirrel; and, after a great deal of trouble, caught her and
brought her down safely to his mistress. Miss Alice thanked him, and
liked him ever after for this.

The ill-humored cook was now a little kinder; but, besides this, Dick
had another hardship to get over. His bed stood in a garret, where there
were so many holes in the floor and the walls, that every night he was
waked in his sleep by the rats and mice, which ran over his face, and
made such a noise that he sometimes thought the walls were tumbling down
about him. One day, a gentleman who came to see Mr. Fitzwarren wanted
his shoes polished; Dick took great pains to make them shine, and the
gentleman gave him a penny. With this he thought he would buy a cat; so
the next day, seeing a little girl with a cat under her arm, he went up
to her, and asked if she would let him have it for a penny. The girl
said she would, and that it was a very good mouser. Dick hid the cat in
the garret, and always took care to carry a part of his dinner to her;
and in a short time he had no more trouble from the rats and mice.



Soon after, his master had a ship ready to sail; and as he thought it
right all his servants should have some chance for good fortune as well
as himself, he called them into the parlor, and asked them if they
wanted to take a share in the trading trip. They all had some money that
they were willing to venture, except poor Dick, who had neither money
nor goods. For this reason he did not come into the parlor with the
rest; but Miss Alice guessed what was the matter, and ordered him to be
called in. She then said she would put in money for him from her own
purse; but her father told her this would not do, for Dick must send
something of his own. When poor Dick heard this, he said he had nothing
but a cat.

"Fetch your cat then, my good boy," said Mr. Fitzwarren, "and let her
go."

Dick went upstairs and brought down poor puss, and gave her to the
captain with tears in his eyes. All the company laughed at Dick's odd
venture; and Miss Alice, who felt pity for the poor boy, gave him some
halfpence to buy another cat.

This, and other marks of kindness shown him by Miss Alice, made the
ill-tempered cook jealous of poor Dick; and she began to use him more
cruelly than ever, and always made fun of him for sending his cat to
sea. She asked him if he thought his cat would sell for as much money as
would buy a stick to beat him. At last, poor Dick could not bear this
any longer, and thought he would run away from his place; so he packed
up his few things, and set out very early in the morning on the first
of November. He walked as far as Highgate, and there sat down on a
stone, which to this day is called Whittington's stone, and began to
think which road he should take farther. While he was thinking what he
should do, the bells of Bow Church began to ring, and he fancied their
sounds seemed to say:

    "Turn again, Whittington,
     Lord Mayor of London."



"Lord Mayor of London!" said he to himself. "Why, to be sure I would put
up with almost anything, now, to be Lord Mayor of London, and ride in a
fine coach, when I grow to be a man! I will go back and think nothing of
the cuffing and scolding of the old cook, if I am to be Lord Mayor of
London at last."

Dick went back, and was lucky enough to get into the house and set about
his work before the cook came down.

The ship, with the cat on board, was a long time at sea; and was at last
driven by the winds on a part of the coast of Barbary. The people came
in great numbers to see the sailors, and treated them very civilly; and,
when they became better acquainted, were eager to buy the fine things
with which the ship was laden. When the captain saw this, he sent
patterns of the best things he had to the King of the country; who was
so much pleased with them, that he sent for the captain and the chief
mate to the palace. Here they were placed, as is the custom of the
country, on rich carpets, marked with gold and silver flowers. The King
and Queen were seated at the upper end of the room; and a number of
dishes, of the greatest rarities, were brought in for dinner; but,
before they had been on the table a minute, a vast number of rats and
mice rushed in, and helped themselves from every dish. The captain
wondered at this, and asked if these vermin were not very unpleasant.

"Oh, yes!" they said, "and the King would give half of his riches to get
rid of them; for they not only waste his dinner, as you see, but disturb
him in his bedroom, so that he is obliged to be watched while he is
asleep."

The captain was ready to jump for joy when he heard of this. He thought
of poor Dick's cat, and told the King he had a creature on board his
ship that would kill all the rats and mice. The King was still more
glad than the captain.

"Bring this creature to me," said he, "and if it can do what you say, I
will give you your ship full of gold for her."

The captain, to make quite sure of his good luck, answered, that she was
such a clever cat for catching rats and mice, that he could hardly bear
to part with her; but that to oblige His Majesty he would fetch her.

"Run, run!" said the Queen, "for I long to see the creature that will
do such service." Away went the captain to the ship while another dinner
was got ready. He came back to the palace soon enough to see the table
full of rats and mice again, and the second dinner likely to be lost in
the same way as the first. The cat did not wait for bidding, but jumped
out of the captain's arm, and in a few moments laid almost all the rats
and mice dead at her feet. The rest, in a fright, scampered away to
their holes.



The King and Queen were delighted to get rid of such a plague so easily.
They desired that the creature might be brought for them to look at. On
this, the captain called out: "Puss, puss!" and the cat ran and jumped
upon his knee. He then held her out to the Queen, who was afraid to
touch an animal that was able to kill so many rats and mice; but when
she saw how gentle the cat seemed, and how glad she was at being stroked
by the captain, she ventured to touch her too, saying all the time:
"Poot, poot," for she could not speak English. At last the Queen took
puss on her lap, and by degrees became quite free with her, till puss
purred herself to sleep. When the King had seen the actions of mistress
puss, and was told that she would soon have young ones, which might in
time kill all the rats and mice in his country, he bought the captain's
whole ship's cargo; and afterwards gave him a great deal of gold
besides, which was worth still more, for the cat. The captain then took
leave, and set sail with a fair wind, and arrived safe at London.

One morning, when Mr. Fitzwarren had come into the counting house, and
seated himself at the desk, somebody came tap, tap, tap, at the door.

"Who is there?" asked Mr. Fitzwarren.

"A friend," answered someone; and who should it be but the captain,
followed by several men carrying vast lumps of gold, that had been paid
him by the King of Barbary for the ship's cargo. They then told the
story of the cat, and showed the rich present that the King had sent to
Dick for her; upon which the merchantman called out to his servants:

    "Go fetch him, we will tell him of the same;
     Pray call him Mr. Whittington by name."

Mr. Fitzwarren now showed himself a really good man, for while some of
his clerks said so great a treasure was too much for such a boy as
Dick, he answered:

"I will not keep the value of a single penny from him! It is all his
own, and he shall have every farthing's worth of it."

He sent for Dick, who happened to be scouring the cook's kettles, and
was quite dirty; so that he wanted to excuse himself from going to his
master. Mr. Fitzwarren, however, made him come in, and ordered a chair
to be set for him, so that poor Dick thought they were making fun of
him, and began to beg his master not to play tricks with a poor boy,
but to let him go again to his work.

"Indeed, Mr. Whittington," said the merchant, "we are all in earnest
with you; and I heartily rejoice in the news these gentlemen have
brought you; for the captain has sold your cat to the King of Barbary,
and brought you, in return for her, more riches than I possess; and I
wish you may long enjoy them!"

Mr. Fitzwarren then told the men to open the great treasure they had
brought with them, and said, "Mr. Whittington has now nothing to do
but to put it in some place of safety."

Poor Dick hardly knew how to behave himself for joy. He begged his
master to take what part of it he pleased, since he owed it all to
his kindness.



"No, no," answered Mr. Fitzwarren, "this is all your own; and I have no
doubt you will use it well."

Dick next asked his mistress, and then Miss Alice, to accept a part of
his good fortune; but they would not, and at the same time told him that
his success afforded them great pleasure. But the poor fellow was too
kind-hearted to keep it all to himself; so he made a handsome present to
the captain, the mate, and every one of the sailors, and afterwards to
his good friend the footman, and the rest of Mr. Fitzwarren's servants;
and even to the ill-natured cook. After this, Mr. Fitzwarren advised
him to get himself dressed like a gentleman; and told him he was welcome
to live in his house till he could provide himself with a better.

When Whittington's face was washed, his hair curled, his hat cocked,
and he was dressed in a nice suit of clothes, he was as handsome as any
young man who visited at Mr. Fitzwarren's; so that Miss Alice, who had
been so kind to him, and thought of him with pity, now looked upon him
as fit to be her sweetheart; and the more so, no doubt, because
Whittington was now always thinking what he could do to oblige her,
and making her the prettiest presents that could be. Mr. Fitzwarren
soon saw their love for each other, and proposed to join them in
marriage; and to this they both readily agreed. A day for the wedding
was soon fixed; and they were attended to church by the Lord Mayor,
the Court of Aldermen, the Sheriffs, and a great number of the richest
merchants in London, whom they afterwards treated with a fine feast.

History tells us that Mr. Whittington and his lady lived in great
splendor, and were very happy. They had several children. He was Sheriff
of London in the year 1360, and several times afterwards Lord Mayor;
the last time, he entertained King Henry the Fifth, on his Majesty's
return from the famous Battle of Agincourt. In this company, the King,
on account of Whittington's gallantry, said:

"Never had prince such a subject;" and when Whittington was told this at
the table, he answered:

"Never had subject such a king."

Going with an address from the city, on one of the King's victories, he
received the honor of knighthood. Sir Richard Whittington supported many
poor; he built a church, and also a college, with a yearly allowance to
poor scholars, and near it raised a hospital. The figure of Sir Richard
Whittington, with his cat in his arms, carved in stone, was to be seen
till the year 1780, over the archway of the old prison of Newgate, that
stood across Newgate Street.




THE STORY OF BLUE BEARD




Many years ago there was a rich man who had a singular blue beard, which
made him very ugly. Being left a widower, he wished to marry one of the
two beautiful daughters of a neighboring lady, and at last the younger
of these girls consented to be his wife.

About a month after the marriage, Blue Beard told his bride that he must
leave her for a time, as he had some business to attend to at a
distance. He gave her his keys, and told her to make free of everything
and entertain her friends while he was absent, but ending by drawing
one key from the bunch and saying:

"This small key belongs to the room at the end of the long gallery--and
that, my dear, is the one room you must not enter, nor even put the key
into the lock. Should you disobey, your punishment would be dreadful."



Blue Beard set out on his journey, and for a time his wife found
pleasure in showing her friends all her magnificence; but again and
again she wondered what could be the reason why she was not to visit the
room at the end of the long gallery. At last her curiosity became such
that she could not resist the temptation to take just one peep within
the forbidden door. When she reached the door she stopped for a few
moments to think of her husband's warning, that he would not fail to
keep his word should she disobey him. But she was so very curious to
know what was inside, that she determined to venture in spite of
everything.

So, with a trembling hand, she put the key into the lock, and the door
immediately opened. The window shutters being closed, she at first saw
nothing; but in a short time she noticed that the floor was covered with
clotted blood, on which the bodies of several dead women were lying.
(These were all the wives whom Blue Beard had married, and murdered one
after another!) She was ready to sink with fear, and the key of the
door, which she held in her hand, fell on the floor. When she had
somewhat recovered from her fright, she took it up, locked the door
and hurried to her own room, terrified by what she had seen.

As she observed that the key had got stained with blood in falling on
the floor, she wiped it two or three times to clean it; but the blood
still remained; she next washed it; but the blood did not go; she then
scoured it with brickdust, and afterwards with sand. But notwithstanding
all she could do, the blood was still there, for the key was a fairy,
who was Blue Beard's friend, so that as fast as she got the stain off
one side it appeared again on the other. Early in the evening Blue
Beard returned, saying he had not proceeded far before he was met by a
messenger, who told him that the business was concluded without his
presence being necessary. His wife said everything she could think of
to make him believe that she was delighted at his unexpected return.



The next morning, he asked for the keys. She gave them, but, as she
could not help showing her fright, Blue Beard easily guessed what had
happened.

"How is it," said he, "that the key of the closet upon the ground floor
is not here."

"Is it not?" said the wife. "I must have left it on my dressing table."

"Be sure you give it me by and by," replied Blue Beard.

After going several times backwards and forwards, pretending to look for
the key, she was at last obliged to give it to Blue Beard. He looked at
it attentively, and then said:

"How came this blood upon the key?"

"I am sure I do not know," replied the lady, turning as pale as death.

"You do not know?" said Blue Beard sternly. "But I know well enough. You
have been in the closet on the ground floor. Very well, madam; since you
are so mightily fond of this closet, you shall certainly take your place
among the ladies you saw there."



His wife, almost dead with fear, fell upon her knees, asked his pardon
a thousand times for her disobedience, and begged him to forgive her,
looking all the time so sorrowful and lovely that she would have melted
any heart that was not harder than a rock.

But Blue Beard answered:

"No, no, madam; you shall die this very minute."

"Alas," said the poor creature, "if I must die, allow me, at least, a
little time to say my prayers!"

"I give you," replied the cruel Blue Beard, "half a quarter of an
hour--not one moment longer."

When Bluebeard had left her to herself, she called her sister; and,
after telling her that she had but half a quarter of an hour to live:

"Please," said she, "Sister Ann" (this was her sister's name), "run up
to the tower, and see if my brothers are in sight; they promised to come
and visit me to-day; and if you see them, make a sign for them to gallop
on as fast as possible."

Her sister instantly did as she was desired, and the terrified lady
every minute called out:

"Sister Ann, do you see anyone coming?"

And her sister answered:

"I see nothing but the sun, which makes a dust, and the grass, which
looks green."

In the meanwhile, Blue Beard, with a great simitar in his hand, bawled
as loud as he could:

"Come down instantly, or I will fetch you."

"One moment longer, I beseech you," replied she, and again called softly
to her sister:

"Sister Ann, do you see anyone coming?"

To which she answered:

"I see nothing but the sun, which makes a dust, and the grass, which
looks green."

Blue Beard again bawled out:

"Come down, I say, this very moment, or I shall come and fetch you."

"I am coming; indeed I will come in one minute," sobbed his unhappy
wife. Then she once more cried out:

"Sister Ann, do you see anyone coming?"

"I see," said her sister, "a cloud of dust a little to the left."

"Do you think it is my brothers?" continued the wife.

"Alas, no, dear sister," replied she, "it is only a flock of sheep!"

"Will you come down or not, madam?" said Blue Beard, in the greatest
rage imaginable.



"Only one moment more," answered she. And then she called out for the
last time:

"Sister Ann! do you see no one coming?"

"I see," replied her sister, "two men on horseback coming to the house;
but they are still at a great distance."

"God be praised!" cried she; "it is my brothers. Give them a sign to
make what haste they can."

At the same moment Blue Beard cried out so loud for her to come down,
that his voice shook the whole house. The poor lady, with her hair
loose and her eyes swimming in tears, came down, and fell on her knees
before Blue Beard, and was going to beg him to spare her life, but he
interrupted her, saying: "All this is of no use, for you shall die;"
then, seizing her with one hand by the hair, and raising the simitar he
held in the other, he was going with one blow to strike off her head.

The unfortunate woman, turning toward him, desired to have a single
moment allowed her to compose herself.

"No, no," said Blue Beard; "I will give you no more time, I am
determined. You have had too much already."

Again he raised his arm. Just at this instant a loud knocking was
heard at the gates, which made Blue Beard wait for a moment to see
who it was. The gates were opened, and two officers entered with
their swords in their hands. Blue Beard, seeing they were his wife's
brothers, endeavored to escape, but they pursued and seized him
before he had got twenty steps, and, plunging their swords into
his body, laid him dead at their feet.

The poor wife, who was almost as dead as her husband, was unable at
first to rise and embrace her brothers, but she soon recovered.

As Blue Beard had no heirs, she found herself the possessor of his great
riches. She used part of her vast fortune in giving a marriage dowry to
her sister Ann, who soon after was married. With another part she bought
captains' commissions for her two brothers; and the rest she presented
to a most worthy gentleman whom she married soon after, and whose kind
treatment soon made her forget Blue Beard's cruelty.




LITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD




Once upon a time there lived a little girl, who was so sweet and pretty
and good that everybody loved her. Her old grandmother, who was very
fond of her, made her a little red cloak and hood, which suited her so
well that everyone called her "Little Red Riding-Hood."

One day, Little Red Riding-Hood's mother told her to take a basket with
some butter and eggs and fresh-baked cake to her grandmother, who was
ill. The little girl, who was always willing and obliging, ran at once
to fetch her red cloak, and, taking her basket, set out on her journey.

On her way she met a wolf, who wished very much to eat her up; but who
dared not do so because some wood-cutters were working close by. So he
only said:

"Good-morning, Little Red Riding-Hood; where are you off to so early?"

Little Red Riding-Hood, who did not know how dangerous it was to talk to
a wolf, replied:

"I am going to see my grandmother, who is ill in bed, to take her some
butter and eggs and a fresh-baked cake that my mother has made for her!"

"Where does your grandmother live?" asked the wolf.

"In the little white cottage at the other side of the wood," answered
Red Riding-Hood.

"Well," said the wolf, "I am going that way, too. If you will let me, I
will walk part of the way with you." So Little Red Riding-Hood, who
suspected no harm, set off with the wolf for her companion.

Presently Red Riding-Hood stopped to gather a nosegay of wild flowers
for her grandmother, and the wolf, who had thought of a plan to get the
little girl for his dinner, said "Good morning," and trotted away.



As soon as he was out of sight, he began to run as fast as he could. In
a short time he reached the grandmother's cottage and knocked at the
door.

"Who is there?" asked the old grandmother, as she lay in bed.

"It is Little Red Riding-Hood," answered the wolf. "I have brought you
some butter and eggs and a fresh-baked cake which mother has made for
you."

"Pull the bobbin and the latch will go up," said the old grandmother. So
the wolf pulled the bobbin and opened the door, and sprang upon the poor
old grandmother and ate her all up in a twinkling.

Then he put on her night-cap and got into bed, and lay down to wait for
Red Riding-Hood.

Very soon there came a little soft tap at the door.

"Who is there?" called out the wolf.

"It is Little Red Riding-Hood, grandmother dear. I have brought you some
butter and eggs and a fresh-baked cake which mother has made for you."

Then the wolf called out, disguising his voice as much as he could:

"Pull the bobbin and the latch will go up." So Little Red Riding-Hood
pulled the bobbin and went inside.



"Good morning, dear grandmother," she said. "How are you feeling today?"

"Very bad indeed, my dear," answered the wolf, trying to hide himself
under the bedclothes.

"How strange and hoarse your voice sounds, grandmother," said the little
girl.

"I have got a bad cold, my dear," said the wicked wolf.

"Grandmother, what very bright eyes you have!" went on Red Riding-Hood,
surprised to see how strange her grandmother looked in her nightclothes.

"The better to see you with, my dear," said the wolf.

"Grandmother, what very big ears you have!"

"The better to hear you with, my child."

"Grandmother, what very long arms you have!"

"The better to hug you with, my dear."

"But, grandmother, what great big teeth you have," said Red Riding-Hood,
who was beginning to get frightened.

"The better to eat you with," roared the wolf, suddenly jumping out of
bed. He seized hold of poor Little Red Riding-Hood, and was just about
to eat her up, when there was a great noise outside, and the door burst
open and in rushed the wood-cutters, who had seen the wolf talking to
the little girl in the wood, and came to see what mischief he was up to.

They killed the wicked wolf quite dead; and so Little Red Riding-Hood
was saved, and ran home to tell her mother all about her terrible
adventure.






SINDBAD THE SAILOR




Sindbad the sailor, after all his adventures and wanderings, settled
down in happiness and prosperity in Bagdad. Here are the stories which
he told to his friends of his seven marvelous voyages.


THE FIRST VOYAGE

My father died while I was young and left me a fortune. Having no one to
restrain me, I fell into bad ways, by which I not only wasted my time,
but injured my health, and destroyed my property.

When I recovered, I collected together what was left of my fortune, and
bought merchandise, which I loaded on board a vessel for the port of
Balsora.



During the voyage we touched at several islands, where we sold or
exchanged our goods. We were one day becalmed near a small island. As
its appearance was inviting, we determined to dine upon it. But while we
were laughing and preparing for dinner, the island began to move, and at
the same moment the people in the ship called out that we were on the
back of a monstrous whale. Some jumped into the boat, and others swam to
the ship; but before I could get off the animal dived into the sea, and
I had only time to catch hold of a piece of wood that had been brought
from the ship to serve as a table. Upon this piece of timber I was
carried away by the current. The others reached the vessel, but a gale
sprang up and the ship sailed without me. I floated during that and the
next night, but the following morning was thrown on a small island.

I found fresh water and fruit. I looked about for some house, but found
none. There were a number of colts grazing together, but no traces of
other animals. When evening approached I took some more fruit and
climbed in a tree to sleep. About midnight the sound of trumpets and
drums seemed to pass around the island, which continued until morning,
when again it seemed to be uninhabited. On the next day I found that the
island was small, and that no other land was in sight. I therefore gave
myself up as lost. Nor were my fears lessened when I found that the
shore abounded with enormous serpents and other sea monsters. I found,
however, that they were timid, and that the rattling of sticks would
make them dive into the water.

[: _Sindbad the Sailor_
We Rowed as Fast as we Could]

I climbed the tree next night, and the drums and trumpets returned as
before. On the third day, I had the satisfaction of seeing a body of
men, who, on landing, were astonished to see me there. Having related
to them how I came hither, they told me they were grooms of King
Mihrage; that the island belonged to genii, who visited it every night
with drums and trumpets; that the genii had allowed their sovereign to
train his colts upon the island; and that they, being sent every six
months to select some, had arrived for that purpose.

The grooms carried me to King Mihrage, who allowed me apartments in his
palace.

One day I saw men unloading a ship in the harbor, and saw that some of
the bales were those which I had sent to Balsora. Going up to the
captain, I said:

"Captain, I am Sindbad."

"Surely," said he, "I and the passengers saw Sindbad swallowed in the
waves many hundred miles away."

Some others, however, coming up, I was recognized; and the captain then
restored me the bales, with many congratulations. I made a valuable
present to King Mihrage, who bestowed a rich gift on me in return; and,
having made some advantageous purchases, I arrived at Balsora, where,
after I had sold my goods, I found myself possessed of a hundred
thousand sequins.


THE SECOND VOYAGE



Becoming weary of a quiet life in Balsora, and having bought trading
goods, I again went to sea with some merchants. After touching at
several places, we landed at an uninhabited island. We amused ourselves
in different ways, but I, having taken my wine and provisions, sat down
and fell asleep. When I awoke, I found that my companions were gone, and
that the ship had sailed. I climbed to the top of a very high tree, and
perceived at a distance an object that was very large and white. I
descended to the ground, and ran toward this strange-looking object.
When I approached it I found it was about fifty paces in circumference,
quite round, and as smooth as ivory, but had no sort of opening. It was
now almost sunset, and suddenly the sky became darkened. I looked up and
beheld a bird of enormous size, moving like a prodigious cloud toward
me. I recollected that I had heard of a bird called the roc, so large
that it could carry away young elephants, and I therefore conjectured
that the large object I had been looking at was the egg of this bird.

As the bird approached I crept close to the egg, so that I had one of
the legs of this winged animal before me when it alighted. This limb
being as large as the trunk of a tree, I tied myself firmly to it with
my turban.



The next morning the bird flew away, and carried me from this desert
island. I was borne so high that I could not see the earth, and then
carried downward so swiftly that I lost my senses. When I recovered, I
was on the ground. I quickly untied the cloth that bound me, and
scarcely was I free when the bird, having taken up a large serpent,
again flew away. I found myself in a deep valley, the sides of which
were too steep to be climbed. As I walked up and down in despair I
noticed that the valley was covered with diamonds of enormous size. But
I soon saw other objects of much less agreeable appearance. Immense
serpents were peeping out of holes on every side. When night came, I
took shelter in a cave, the entrance of which I guarded with the largest
stones I could find, but the hissing of the serpents entirely deprived
me of sleep. When day returned, the serpents retired to their holes; and
I came out of my cave, but with extreme fear. I walked heedless of the
serpents until I became weary, and then sat down and fell asleep. I was
awakened by something which fell near me. It was a large piece of fresh
meat, and presently I saw several other pieces.

I was now convinced that I must be in the famous valley of diamonds, and
that the pieces of meat were thrown in by merchants, who expected eagles
to pounce upon the flesh, to which diamonds were almost sure to
adhere. I hastened to pick up some of the largest diamonds I could find,
which I put into a little bag, and fastened it to my girdle. I then
selected the largest piece of flesh in the valley, which I tied to my
waist with the cloth of my turban, and then lay down upon my face to
wait for the eagles. Very soon one of the strongest pounced upon the
meat on my back, and flew with me to its nest on the top of the
mountain. The merchants began shouting to frighten the eagles, and when
they had forced the birds to quit their prey, one of them came to the
nest where I was. At first the man was frightened when he saw me there,
but after recovering himself, asked me how I got there. I told him and
the rest of the merchants my story. I then opened my bag, and they
declared that they had never seen diamonds of equal luster and size with
mine. The merchants having gathered their diamonds together, we left the
place the next morning, and crossed the mountains until we reached a
port. We there took ship and proceeded to the island of Roha. At that
place I exchanged some of my diamonds for other merchandise, and we went
on to Balsora. From Balsora I reached my native city, Bagdad, in which I
lived easily upon the vast riches I had won.




THE THIRD VOYAGE

I soon resolved upon a third voyage, and once more took ship at Balsora.
After we had been at sea a few weeks, we were overtaken by a dreadful
storm, and were obliged to cast anchor near an island which the captain
had endeavored to avoid; for he assured us that it was inhabited by
pigmy savages, covered with hair, who would speedily attack us in great
numbers. Soon an innumerable multitude of frightful savages, about two
feet high, boarded the ship. Resistance was useless. They took down our
sails, cut our cable, towed the ship to land, and made us all go on
shore. We went towards the interior of the island and discovered a large
building. It was a lofty palace, having a gate of ebony, which we pushed
open, and soon discovered a room in which were human bones and roasting
spits. Presently there appeared a hideous black man, who was as tall as
a palm tree. He had but one eye, his teeth were long and sharp, and his
nails like the talons of a bird. He took me up as I would a kitten, but
finding I was little better than skin and bone, put me down with
contempt. The captain, being the fattest of the party, was sacrificed
to his appetite. When the monster had finished his meal he stretched
himself upon a great stone bench in the portico, and fell asleep,
snoring louder than thunder. In this manner he slept till morning. In
the morning he went out. I said to my companions:

"Do not waste time in useless sorrow; let us hurry to look for timber
to make rafts."



We found some timber on the seashore, and labored hard; but having no
tools, it was evening before we had finished; and while we were on the
point of pushing the raft off the beach, our hideous tyrant returned
and drove us to his palace, as if we had been a flock of sheep. We saw
another of our companions sacrificed, and the giant lay down to sleep as
before. Our desperate condition gave us courage; nine of us got up very
softly, and held the points of the roasting spits in the fire until we
made them red-hot; we then thrust them at once into the monster's eye.
He uttered a frightful scream, and having tried in vain to find us,
opened the ebony gate and left the palace. We did not stay long behind
him, but ran to the seashore, got our rafts ready, and waited for
daylight to embark. But at dawn we beheld our monstrous enemy, led by
two giants of equal size, and followed by many others. We jumped upon
our rafts, and pushed them from the shore, the tide helping us. The
giants seeing us likely to escape, tore great pieces of rock, and wading
in the water up to their waists, hurled them at us with all their might.
They sank every one of the rafts but that on which I was; thus all my
companions, except two, were drowned. We rowed as fast as we could, and
got out of the reach of these monsters. We were at sea two days, but at
last found a pleasant island. After eating some fruit, we lay down to
sleep, but were soon awakened by the hissing of an enormous serpent. One
of my comrades was instantly devoured by this terrific creature. I
climbed up a tree as fast as I could, and reached the topmost branches;
my remaining companion was following me, but the dreadful reptile
entwined itself round the tree and caught him. The serpent then went
down and glided away. I waited until late the next day before I ventured
to descend. Evening again approached, and I gathered together a great
quantity of small wood, brambles, and thorns. Having made them into
fagots, I formed a circle round the tree, and fastened the uppermost to
the branches of the tree. I then climbed up to the highest branches. At
night the serpent came again, but could not reach the tree; and crawling
vainly round and round my little fortification until daylight, he went
away. The next day I spied a ship in full sail a long way off. With the
linen of my turban I made a signal, which was perceived. I was taken on
board the ship and there told my adventures. The captain was very kind
to me. He said that he had some bales of goods which had belonged to a
merchant who had unintentionally left him some time ago on an
uninhabited island. As this man was undoubtedly dead, he intended to
sell the goods for the benefit of his relatives, and I should have the
profit of selling them. I now recollected this was the captain with whom
I sailed on my second voyage. I soon convinced him that I was really
Sindbad, whom he supposed to have been lost. He was delighted at the
discovery, and eagerly acknowledged that the property was mine. I
continued my voyage, sold my goods to great advantage, and returned
to Bagdad.


MY FOURTH VOYAGE



My desire of seeing foreign countries rendered my pleasures at home
unsatisfactory. I therefore arranged my affairs, commenced a voyage to
Persia, and having bought a large stock of goods loaded a ship and again
embarked. The ship struck upon a rock, and the cargo was lost. A few
others and myself were borne by the current to an island, on which we
were surrounded by black savages, and carried to their huts. The savages
offered us herbs; my companions eagerly took them, for they were hungry.
Grief would not allow me to eat; and presently I saw that the herbs had
made my comrades senseless. Rice, mixed with oil of cocoanuts, was then
offered to us, which my companions ate greedily and grew fat. My unhappy
friends were then devoured one after another, having become appetizing
to the cannibals. But I languished so much that they did not think me
fit to eat. They left me to the care of an old man, from whom I managed
to escape; and taking care to go a contrary way from that which the
savages had taken I never stopped till night. At the end of seven days,
on the seashore I found a number of white persons gathering pepper. They
asked me in Arabic who I was, and whence I came; and I gave them an
account of the shipwreck, and of my escape. They treated me kindly and
presented me to their King, who treated me with great liberality. During
my stay with them, I observed that when the King and his nobles went
hunting, they rode their horses without bridle or saddle. With the
assistance of some workmen I made a bridle and saddle, and having put
them upon one of the King's horses, presented the animal, thus
equipped, to His Majesty. He was so delighted that he instantly mounted
and rode about the grounds almost the whole day. All the ministers of
state and the nobility induced me to make saddles and bridles for them,
for which they made me such magnificent presents that I soon became very
rich. The King at last requested that I would marry, and become one of
his nation. From a variety of circumstances I could not refuse, and he
therefore gave me one of the ladies of his Court, who was young, rich,
beautiful, and virtuous. We lived in the greatest harmony in a palace
belonging to my wife. I had made a good friend of a very worthy man who
lived in this place. Hearing one day that his wife had just died, I went
to condole with him on this unexpected calamity. We were alone together,
and he appeared to be in the deepest grief. After I had talked with him
some time on the uselessness of so much sorrow, he told me that it was
an established law that the living husband should be buried with the
deceased wife, and that within an hour he must submit. I shuddered at
the dreadful custom. In a short time the woman was attired in her most
costly dress and jewels, and placed in an open coffin. The procession
then began, the husband following the corpse. They ascended to the top
of an exceedingly high mountain, and a great stone was removed, which
covered the mouth of a deep pit. The corpse was let down, and the
husband, having taken leave of his friends, was put into another open
coffin, with a pot of water and seven small loaves, and he was let down.
The stone was replaced and they all returned. The horror of this was
still fresh upon my mind, when my wife fell sick and died. The King and
the whole Court, out of respect to me, instantly prepared to assist at a
similar ceremony with me. I restrained the feeling of despair until we
arrived at the top of the mountain, when I fell at the feet of the King
and begged him to spare my life. All I said was ineffectual, and after
my wife was let down, I also was put into the deep pit, everyone being
totally indifferent to my cries and lamentations. I made the cave echo
with my vain complaints. I lived some days on the bread and water which
had been put into my coffin, but this supply was at length exhausted. I
then wandered to a remote part of this frightful cave and lay down to
prepare for death. I was thus wishing only for a speedy termination of
my misery, when I heard something walking and panting. I started up,
upon which the thing panted still more, and then ran away. I pursued it,
and sometimes it seemed to stop, but on my approach continued to go on
before me. I pursued it, until at last I saw a glimmering light like a
star. This redoubled my eagerness, until at last I discovered a hole
large enough to allow my escape. I crept through the aperture, and found
myself on the seashore, and discovered that the creature was a sea
monster which had been accustomed to enter at that hole to feed upon the
dead bodies. Having eaten some shellfish, I returned to the cave, where
I collected all the jewels I could find in the dark. These I carried to
the seashore, and tied them up very neatly into bales with the cords
that let down the coffins. I laid them on the beach, waiting till some
ship should pass. In two days a ship came out of the harbor, and passed
by that part of the coast. I made a signal, and a boat took me on board.
I was obliged to say that I had been wrecked; for, had they known my
real story, I should have been carried back, as the captain was a
native of this country. We touched at several islands, and at the port
of Kela, where I found a ship ready to sail for Balsora; and having
presented some jewels to the captain who had brought me to Kela, I
sailed, and at last arrived at Bagdad.




THE FIFTH VOYAGE



Having forgotten my former perils, I built a ship at my own expense,
loaded it with a rich cargo, and, taking with me other merchants, once
more set sail. We were much driven about by a storm, and at length
landed upon a desert island to search for fresh water. There we found a
roc's egg, equal in size to the one I had seen before. The merchants and
sailors gathered round it, and though I advised them not to meddle with
it, they nevertheless made a hole in it with their hatchets, and picked
out the young roc, piece after piece, and roasted it. They had scarcely
finished when two of the old birds appeared in the air. We hurried on
board ship and set sail, but had not gone far before we saw the immense
birds approaching us, and soon after they hovered over the ship. One of
them let fall an enormous fragment of stone, which fell into the sea
close beside the ship, but the other let fall a piece which split our
ship. I caught hold of a bit of the wreck, on which I was borne by the
wind and tide to an island, the shore of which was very steep. I reached
the dry land, and found the most delicious fruits and excellent water,
which refreshed me. Farther in the island I saw a feeble old man sitting
near a rivulet. When I enquired of him how he came there, he only
answered by signs for me to carry him over the rivulet, that he might
eat some fruit. I took him on my back, and crossed the brook, but
instead of getting down, he clasped his legs so firmly round my throat
that I thought he would strangle me. I soon fainted with pain and
fright. When I recovered, the old fellow was still sitting on my neck,
and he quickly made me rise up and walk under the trees, while he
gathered the fruit at his ease. This lasted a long time. One day, while
carrying him about, I picked up a large gourd called a calabash, and,
having cleared out the inside, I pressed into it the juice of grapes.
Having filled it, I left it for several days, and at length found that
it became excellent wine. I drank of this, and for a while forgot my
sorrows, so that I began to sing with cheerfulness. The old man made me
give him the calabash, and liking the flavor of the wine, he drank it
off, soon became intoxicated, fell from my shoulders, and, died in
convulsions. I hastened to the seaside, and presently found the crew of
a ship. They told me I had fallen into the hands of the Old Man of the
Sea, and was the first person that had ever escaped. I sailed with them,
and the captain, when we landed, took me to some persons whose
employment was to gather cocoanuts. We all took up stones and pelted the
monkeys that were at the very top of the cocoanut trees, and these
animals in return pelted us with cocoanuts. When we had obtained as
many as we could carry, we returned to the town. I soon obtained a
considerable sum by the cocoanuts I thus gathered, and at length sailed
for my native land.


THE SIXTH VOYAGE



At the expiration of another year, I prepared for a sixth voyage. This
proved very long and unfortunate, for the pilot lost his course and knew
not where to steer. At length he told us we must inevitably be dashed to
pieces against a rock, which we were fast approaching. In a few moments
the vessel was a complete wreck. We saved our lives, our provisions, and
our goods.

The shore on which we were cast was at the foot of a mountain which it
was impossible to climb, so that I shortly beheld my companions die one
after another. There was a frightful cavern in the rock, through which
flowed a river. To this, in a fit of desperation, I resolved to trust
myself. I went to work and made a long raft. I loaded it with bales of
rich stuffs, and large pieces of rock crystal, of which the mountain was
in a great measure formed. I went on board the raft, and the current
carried me along. I was carried in darkness during many days, and at
last fell asleep. When I awoke, I found myself in a pleasant country.
My raft was tied up and some blacks, who were near me, said that they
had found me floating in the river which waters their land. They took me
to their King, and carefully conducted my cargo with me. When we came to
the city of Serindib, I related my story to the monarch, who ordered it
to be written in letters of gold. I presented the King with some of the
most beautiful pieces of rock crystal, and entreated him to let me
return to my own country, which he readily agreed to, and even gave me
a letter and a present to my sovereign, the Caliph Haroun Alrashid. The
present consisted of a ruby made into a cup, and decorated with pearls;
the skin of a serpent, which appeared like burnished gold, and which
could repel disease; some aloe-wood, camphire, and a beautiful female
slave. I returned to my native country, delivered the present to the
Caliph, and received his thanks, with a reward.


THE SEVENTH AND LAST VOYAGE



The Caliph Haroun Alrashid one day sent for me, and told me I must bear
a present to the King of Serindib. I ventured to protest on account of
my age, but I could not persuade him to give up his plan. I arrived at
Serindib, and prayed an audience with the King. I was conducted to the
palace with great respect, and delivered to the monarch the Caliph's
letter and present. The present consisted of the most ingenious and
valuable works of art, with which the King was exceedingly delighted,
and he was also pleased to acknowledge how much he esteemed my services.
When I departed, the monarch bestowed on me some rich gifts; but the
ship had not long been at sea, before it was attacked by pirates, who
seized the vessel, and carried us away as slaves. I was sold to a
merchant. When my master found that I could use the bow and arrow with
skill, he took me upon an elephant, and carried me to a vast forest in
the country. My master ordered me to climb a high tree, and wait there
until I saw a troop of elephants pass by. I was then to shoot at them,
and if one of them fell, I was to go to the city and give the merchant
notice. Having given me these directions, and a bag of provisions, he
left me. On the morning of the second day, I saw a great number of
elephants. I succeeded in shooting one of them, upon which the others
went away, and I returned to the city and told my employer, who praised
my work. We went back to the forest and dug a hole, in which the
elephant was to remain until it decayed and left the teeth free. I
continued this trade nearly two months, and killed an elephant almost
every day. One morning all the elephants came up to the tree in which I
was and trumpeted dreadfully. One of them fastened his trunk round the
tree and tore it up by the roots. I fell with the tree; the animal took
me up with his trunk, and placed me on his back, and then, at the head
of his troop, he brought me to a place where he gently laid me on the
ground, and they all went away. I discovered that I was upon a large
broad hill, covered all over with the bones and teeth of elephants, and
was soon convinced that this was their burying-place. I reached the city
once more; my master thought I was lost, for he had seen the torn tree,
and found my bow and arrows. I told him what had happened, and led him
to the hill. We loaded the elephant on which we had come, and thus
collected more teeth than a man could have obtained in his whole life.
The merchant told me that not only he himself, but the whole city, was
indebted to me, and that I should return to my own country with
sufficient wealth to make me happy. My patron loaded a ship with ivory,
and the other merchants made me valuable presents. I reached Balsora
and landed my ivory, which I found to be more valuable than I had
expected. I set out with caravans to travel overland, and at last
reached Bagdad, where I presented myself to the Caliph, and gave an
account of my embassy. He was so astonished at my adventure with the
elephants that he ordered the narrative of it to be written in letters
of gold and to be deposited in his treasury.






HANSEL AND GRETEL




Once upon a time there dwelt near a large wood a poor wood-cutter, with
his wife and two children by his former marriage, a little boy called
Hansel and a girl named Gretel. He had little enough to eat; and once,
when there was a great famine in the land, he could not get even his
daily bread. As he lay thinking in his bed one evening, rolling about
for trouble, he sighed, and said to his wife, "What will become of us?
How can we feed our children, when we have no more than we can eat
ourselves?"

"Well, then, my husband," answered she, "we will lead them away, quite
early in the morning, into the thickest part of the wood, and there make
them a fire, and give them each a little piece of bread. Then we will go
to our work and leave them alone, so they will not find the way home
again, and we shall be freed from them."

"No, wife," replied he; "that I can never do. How can you bring your
heart to leave my children all alone in the wood; for the wild beasts
will soon come and tear them to pieces?"

"Oh, you simpleton!" said she. "Then we must all four die of hunger."

But she gave him no peace until he consented, saying, "Ah, but I shall
regret the poor children."

The two children, however, had not gone to sleep for very hunger, and so
they overheard what the stepmother said to their father. Gretel wept
bitterly, and said to Hansel, "What will become of us?"



"Be quiet, Gretel," said he. "Do not cry--I will soon help you." And as
soon as their parents had fallen asleep he got up, put on his coat,
and, unbarring the back door, slipped out. The moon shone brightly, and
the white pebbles which lay before the door seemed like silver pieces,
they glittered so brightly. Hansel stooped down, and put as many into
his pocket as it would hold; and then, going back, he said to Gretel,
"Be comforted, dear sister, and sleep in peace; God will not forsake
us." And so saying, he went to bed again.

The next morning, before the sun arose, the wife went and awoke the two
children. "Get up, you lazy things; we are going into the forest to chop
wood." Then she gave them each a piece of bread, saying, "There is
something for your dinner; do not eat it before the time, for you will
get nothing else."

Gretel took the bread in her apron, for Hansel's pocket was full of
pebbles; and so they all set out upon their way. When they had gone a
little distance, Hansel stood still, and peeped back at the house; and
this he repeated several times, till his father said, "Hansel, what are
you peeping at, and why do you lag behind? Take care, and remember
your legs."



"Ah, father," said Hansel, "I am looking at my white cat sitting upon
the roof of the house, and trying to say good-bye."

"You simpleton!" said the wife, "that is not a cat; it is only the sun
shining on the white chimney."

But in reality Hansel was not looking at a cat; but every time he
stopped he dropped a pebble out of his pocket upon the path.



When they came to the middle of the wood the father told the children to
collect wood, and he would make them a fire, so that they should not be
cold. So Hansel and Gretel gathered together quite a little mountain of
twigs. Then they set fire to them; and as the flame burnt up high, the
wife said, "Now, you children, lie down near the fire, and rest
yourselves, while we go into the forest and chop wood. When we are
ready I will come and call you."

Hansel and Gretel sat down by the fire, and when it was noon each ate
the piece of bread; and because they could hear the blows of an axe,
they thought their father was near; but it was not an axe, but a branch
which he had bound to a withered tree, so as to be blown to and fro by
the wind.

They waited so long, that at last their eyes closed from weariness, and
they fell fast asleep. When they awoke it was quite dark, and Gretel
began to cry, "How shall we get out of the wood?" But Hansel tried to
comfort her, saying, "Wait a little while till the moon rises, and then
we will quickly find the way."

The moon soon shone forth, and Hansel, taking his sister's hand,
followed the pebbles, which glittered like new-coined silver pieces, and
showed them the path. All night long they walked on, and as day broke
they came to their father's house. They knocked at the door, and when
the wife opened it and saw Hansel and Gretel, she exclaimed, "You wicked
children! why did you sleep so long in the wood? We thought you were
never coming home again." But their father was very glad, for it had
grieved his heart to leave them all alone.

Not long afterwards there was again great scarcity in every corner of
the land; and one night the children overheard their mother saying to
their father, "Everything is again eaten. We have only half a loaf left,
and then we must starve. The children must be sent away. We will take
them deeper into the wood, so that they may not find the way out again;
it is the only means of escape for us."

But her husband felt heavy at heart, and thought. "It were better to
share the last crust with the children." His wife, however, would listen
to nothing that he said, and scolded and reproached him without end.

Now the children had heard what had been said as they lay awake, and as
soon as the old people went to sleep Hansel got up, intending to pick up
some pebbles as before; but the wife had locked the door, so that he
could not get out. Nevertheless he comforted Gretel, saying, "Do not
cry; sleep in peace; the good God will not forsake us."

Early in the morning the stepmother came and pulled them out of bed, and
gave them each a slice of bread, which was still smaller than the one
they had last time. On the way Hansel broke his in his pocket, and,
stooping every now and then, dropped a crumb upon the path.

"Hansel, why do you stop and look about?" said the father. "Keep in the
path."

"I am looking at my little dove," answered Hansel, "nodding a good-bye
to me."

"Simpleton!" said the wife, "that is no dove, but only the sun shining
on the chimney."

But Hansel kept still dropping crumbs as he went along.

The mother led the children deep into the wood, where they had never
been before, and there, making an immense fire, she said to them, "Sit
down here and rest, and when you feel tired you can sleep for a little
while. We are going into the forest to hew wood, and in the evening,
when we are ready, we will come and fetch you."

When noon came Gretel shared her bread with Hansel, who had strewn his
on the path. They then went to sleep; but the evening arrived and no one
came to visit the poor children, and in the dark night they awoke, and
Hansel comforted his sister by saying, "Only wait, Gretel, till the moon
comes out, then we shall see the crumbs of bread which I have dropped,
and they will show us the way home."

When the moon shone they got up, but they could not see any crumbs, for
the thousands of birds which had been flying about in the woods and
fields had picked them all up. Hansel kept saying to Gretel, "We will
soon find the way." But they did not. They walked the whole night long
and the next day, but still they did not come out of the wood; and they
got very hungry, for they had nothing to eat but the berries which they
found upon the bushes. Soon they got so tired that they could not drag
themselves along, so they lay down under a tree and went to sleep.

It was now the third morning since they had left their father's house,
and they still walked on; but they only got deeper and deeper into the
wood, and Hansel saw that if help did not come very soon they would die
of hunger. About the middle of the day they saw a beautiful snow-white
bird sitting on a bough, which sang so sweetly that they stood still and
listened to it. It soon left off and, spreading its wings, flew away.
They followed it until it arrived at a cottage, upon the roof of which
it perched; and when they went close up to it they saw that the cottage
was made of bread and cakes, and the window-panes were of clear sugar.

"We will go in there," said Hansel, "and have a glorious feast. I will
eat a piece of the roof, and you can eat the window. Will they not be
sweet?"

So Hansel reached up and broke a piece off the roof, in order to see how
it tasted; while Gretel stepped up to the window and began to bite it.
Then a sweet voice called out in the room, "Tip-tap, tip-tap, who raps
at my door?" and the children answered, "The wind, the wind, the child
of heaven;" and they went on eating.

Hansel thought the roof tasted very nice, and so he tore off a great
piece; while Gretel broke a large round pane out of the window and sat
down quite contentedly. Just then the door opened, and a very old
woman, walking upon crutches, came out. Hansel and Gretel were so
frightened that they let fall what they had in their hands; but the
old woman, nodding her head, said, "Ah, you dear children, what has
brought you here? Come in and stay with me, and no harm shall befall
you." And so saying, she took them both by the hand and led them into
her cottage.



A good meal of milk and pancakes, with sugar, apples and nuts, was
spread on the table, and in the back room were two nice little beds,
covered with white, where Hansel and Gretel laid themselves down, and
rested happily after all their hardships. The old woman was very kind
to them, but in reality she was a wicked witch who waylaid children,
and built the bread-house in order to entice them in; then as soon as
they were in her power she killed them, cooked and ate them, and made
a great festival of the day.

Witches have red eyes and cannot see very far; but they have a fine
sense of smell, like wild beasts, so that they know when children
approach them. When Hansel and Gretel came near the witch's house she
laughed wickedly, saying, "Here come two who shall not escape me." And
early in the morning, before they awoke, she went up to them, and saw
how lovingly they lay sleeping, with their chubby red cheeks; and she
mumbled to herself, "That will be a good bite." Then she took up
Hansel with her rough hand, and shut him up in a little cage with a
lattice-door; and although he screamed loudly it was of no use. Gretel
came next, and, shaking her till she awoke, she said, "Get up, you lazy
thing, and fetch some water to cook something good for your brother, who
must remain in that stall and get fat; when he is fat enough I shall eat
him."

Gretel began to cry, but it was all useless, for the old witch made her
do as she wished. So a nice meal was cooked for Hansel, but Gretel got
nothing but a crab's claw.

Every morning the old witch came to the cage and said, "Hansel, stretch
out your finger that I may feel whether you are getting fat." But Hansel
used to stretch out a bone, and the old woman, having very bad sight,
thought that it was his finger, and wondered very much that he did not
get fatter.

When four weeks had passed, and Hansel was still quite lean, she lost
all her patience, and would not wait any longer. "Gretel," she called
out in a passion, "get some water quickly; be Hansel fat or lean, this
morning I will kill and cook him."

Oh, how the poor little sister grieved, as she was forced to fetch the
water, and fast the tears ran down her cheeks! "Dear good God, help us
now!" she exclaimed. "Had we only been eaten by the wild beasts in the
wood, then we should have died together."



But the old witch called out, "Stop that noise; it will not help you a
bit."

So, early in the morning, Gretel was forced to go out and fill the
kettle, and make a fire.

"First, we will bake, however," said the old woman; "I have already
heated the oven and kneaded the dough;" and so saying, she pushed poor
Gretel up to the oven, out of which the flames were burning fiercely.
"Creep in," said the witch, "and see if it is hot enough, and then we
will put in the bread." But she intended when Gretel got in to shut up
the oven and let her bake, so that she might eat her as well as Hansel.

Gretel saw what her thoughts were and said, "I do not know how to do it;
how shall I get in?"

"You stupid goose," said she, "the opening is big enough. See, I could
even get in myself!" And she got up, and put her head into the oven.

Then Gretel gave her a push, so that she fell right in, and then,
shutting the iron door, she bolted it. Oh! how horribly she howled; but
Gretel ran away, and left the wicked witch to burn to ashes.

Now she ran to Hansel, and, opening his door, called out, "Hansel we are
saved; the old witch is dead!" So he sprang out, like a bird out of his
cage when the door is opened; and they were so glad that they fell upon
each other's neck, and kissed each other over and over again.

And now, as there was nothing to fear, they went into the witch's house,
where, in every corner, were caskets full of pearls and precious stones.
"These are better than pebbles," said Hansel, putting as many into his
pocket as it would hold; while Gretel thought, "I will take some home
too," and filled her apron full. "We must be off now," said Hansel, "and
get out of this enchanted forest."

When they had walked for two hours they came to a large piece of water.
"We cannot get over," said Hansel. "I can see no bridge at all."

"And there is no boat, either," said Gretel; "but there swims a white
duck--I will ask her to help us over," and she sang:

    "Little Duck so blithe and merry,
       Hansel, Gretel, here we stand;
     There is neither bridge nor ferry,
       Row us on your back to land."

So the Duck came to them, and Hansel sat himself on her back, and bade
his sister sit behind him.

"No," answered Gretel, "that will be too much for the Duck; she shall
take us over one at a time."

This the good little bird did, and when both were happily arrived on the
other side, and had gone a little way, they came to a wood, which they
knew the better every step they went, and at last they saw their
father's house. Then they began to run, and, bursting into the house,
they fell on their father's neck.

He had not had one happy hour since he had left the children in the
forest; and his wife was dead. Gretel shook her apron, and the pearls
and precious stones rolled out on the floor, and Hansel threw down one
handful after another out of his pocket. Then all their sorrows were
ended, and they lived together in great happiness.




THE GOOSE GIRL


Once upon a time there lived an old Queen, whose husband had been dead
some years, and left her with one child, a beautiful daughter. When this
daughter grew up she was to be married to a King's son, who lived far
away.



Now when the time came for her to leave, the mother gave her daughter a
lock of hair, saying, "Dear child, preserve this well, and it will help
you out of trouble."

Afterwards the mother and daughter took a sorrowful leave of each other,
and the princess placed the lock of hair in her bosom, mounted her horse
Falada, and rode away to her intended bridegroom. Now this horse could
speak. After she had ridden for about an hour she became very thirsty,
and said to her servant, "Dismount, and bring me some water from yonder
stream in the cup which you carry with you, for I am very thirsty."

"If you are thirsty," replied the servant, "dismount yourself, and stoop
down to drink the water, for I will not be your maid!"

The Princess, on account of her great thirst, did as she was bid, and
bending over the brook she drank of its water without daring to use her
golden cup. While she did so the lock of hair said, "Ah! if thy mother
knew this, her heart would break."

As she leaned over the water, the lock of hair fell out of her bosom and
floated down the stream without her noticing it, because of her great
anguish. But her servant had seen what happened, and she was glad, for
now she had power over her mistress, because with the loss of the lock
of hair, she became weak and helpless. When, then, the Princess was
going to mount her horse again, the maid said, "No, Falada belongs to
me; you must get upon this horse:" and she was forced to yield. Then
the servant bade her take off her royal clothes, and put on her common
ones instead; and, lastly, she made the Princess promise and swear by
the open sky that she would say nought of what had passed at the King's
palace; for if she had not sworn she would have been murdered. But
Falada, the horse, observed all that passed with great attention.



Then the servant mounted upon Falada, and the rightful Princess upon
a sorry hack; and in that way they traveled on till they came to the
King's palace. On their arrival there were great rejoicings, and the
young Prince, running towards them, lifted the servant off her horse,
supposing that she was the true bride; and she was led up the steps in
state, while the real Princess had to stop below. Just then the old King
chanced to look out of his window and saw her standing in the court,
and he remarked how delicate and beautiful she was; and, going to the
royal apartments, he inquired there of the bride who it was she had
brought with her and left below in the courtyard.



"Only a girl whom I brought with me for company," said the bride. "Give
the wench some work to do, that she may not grow idle."

The old King, however, had no work for her, and knew of nothing; until
at last he said, "Ah! there is a boy who keeps the geese: she can help
him." This youth was called Conrad, and the true bride was set to keep
geese with him.

Soon after this, the false bride said to her betrothed, "Dearest, will
you grant me a favor?"

"Yes," said he; "with the greatest pleasure."

"Then let the butcher be summoned, that he may cut off the head of the
horse on which I rode hither, for it has angered me on the way." In
reality she feared lest the horse might tell how she had used the
rightful Princess, and she was glad when it was decided that Falada
should die.

This came to the ears of the Princess, and she promised secretly to the
butcher to give him a piece of gold if he would show her a kindness,
which was, that he would nail the head of Falada over a certain large
and gloomy arch, through which she had to pass daily with the geese, so
that then she might still see her old steed as she had been accustomed.
The butcher promised, and, after killing the horse, nailed the head in
the place which the Princess pointed out, over the door of the arch.

Early in the morning, when she and Conrad drove the geese through the
arch, she said in passing:

    "Ah, Falada, that you
     hang so high!"

and the head replied:

    "Ah Princess, that you go humbly by!
     Thy mother's heart would surely break
     Were she to know of your heart-ache!"



Then she drove on through the town to a field. When they arrived in the
meadow, she sat down and unloosened her hair, which was of pure gold.
Its shining appearance so charmed Conrad that he tried to pull out a
couple of locks. So she sang:

    "Blow, blow, thou wind,
     Blow Conrad's hat away."

Immediately there came a strong wind, which snatched Conrad's hat off
his head, and led him a rare chase; and when he returned what with
combing and curling, the Princess had rearranged her hair, so that he
could not catch a loose lock. This made Conrad very angry, and he would
not speak to her; so all day long they tended their geese in silence.



After they returned home Conrad went to the old King and declared he
would no longer keep geese with the servant.

"Why not?" asked the old King.

"Oh! she vexes me the whole day long," said Conrad; and then the King
bade him tell all that had happened. So Conrad did, and told how, in
the morning, when they passed through a certain archway, she spoke to
a horse's head, which was nailed up over the door, and said:

    "Ah, Falada, that you hang so high!"

and it replied:

    "Ah, Princess, that you go humbly by!
     Thy mother's heart would surely break
     Were she to know of your heart-ache!"



And, further, he told how when they arrived in the meadow, she caused
the wind to blow his hat off, so that he had to run after it ever so
far. When he had finished his tale, the old King ordered him to drive
the geese out again the next morning; and he himself, when morning came,
stationed himself behind the gloomy archway, and heard the servant talk
to the head of Falada. Then he followed them also into the fields. There
he saw with his own eyes the Goose Girl and boy drive in the geese; and
after a while she sat down and, unloosening her hair, which shone like
gold, began to sing the old rhyme:

    "Blow, blow, thou wind,
     Blow Conrad's hat away."

Then the King felt a breeze come, which took off Conrad's hat, so that
he had to run a long way after it; while the Goose Girl combed out her
hair and put it back in proper trim before his return. All this the King
observed, and then went home unnoticed; and when the Goose Girl returned
at evening, he called her aside, and asked her what it all meant.

"That I dare not tell you, nor any other man," replied she; "for I have
sworn by the free sky not to speak of my griefs, else lose my life."

The King pressed her to say what it was, and left her no peace about it;
but still she refused. So at last he said, "If you will not tell me,
tell your griefs to this fireplace;" and he went away.

Then she crept into the fireplace and began to weep and groan; and soon
she relieved her heart by telling her tale. "Here sit I," she said
"forsaken by all the world, and yet I am a King's daughter; and a false
servant has exercised some charm over me, whereby I was compelled to lay
aside my royal clothes; and she has also taken my place at the
bridegroom's side, and I am forced to perform the common duties of a
Goose Girl. Oh, if my mother knew this, her heart would break with
grief!"

The old King, meanwhile, stood outside by the chimney and listened to
what she said; and when she had finished he came in, and called her away
from the fireplace. Then her royal clothes were put on, and the old
King, calling his son, showed him that he had taken a false bride, who
was only a servant-girl, and that the true bride stood there as a Goose
Girl.

The prince was glad indeed at heart when he saw her beauty and virtue.
Then there was a great feast, at which the bridegroom sat, with the
Princess on one side and the servant-girl on the other. But the latter
was dazzled, and recognized her mistress no longer in her shining dress.

When they had finished their feasting, and were beginning to be gay, the
old King set a riddle to the real servant-girl: What such an one were
worthy of who had, in such and such a manner, deceived her masters; and
he related all that had happened to the true bride. The servant-girl
replied, "Such an one deserves nothing better than to be put into a
cask, lined with sharp nails, and then to be dragged by two horses
through the streets till the wretch be killed."

"You are the woman then!" exclaimed the King; "You have proclaimed your
own punishment, and it shall be strictly fulfilled."

The sentence was at once carried out, and afterwards the Prince married
his rightful bride, and they lived long in peace and happiness.






  _See saw, Margery Daw,
  Jenny shall have a new master_]


  Hush-a-bye, baby, on the tree top,
  When the wind blows, the cradle will rock;
  When the bough bends, the cradle will fall.
  Down will come baby, cradle, and all.


  Currahoo, curr dhoo,
  Love me, and I'll love you!
                 


  When the days begin to lengthen
  The cold begins to strengthen.


  Cantaloupes! Cantaloupes! What is the price?
  Eight for a dollar, and all very nice.


  Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake, baker's man!
  Make me a cake as fast as you can:
  Pat it, and prick it, and mark it with T,
  And there will be enough for Baby and me.


    As I was going to St. Ives,
    I met a man with seven wives,
    Every wife had seven sacks,
    Every sack had seven cats,
    Every cat had seven kits:
  Kits, cats, sacks, and wives,
  How many were there going to St. Ives?
                                   


  Bye, baby, bunting,
  Daddy's gone a-hunting,
  To get a little rabbit skin
  To wrap his baby bunting in.


  

  As Tommy Snooks and Bessy Brooks
    Were walking out one Sunday,
  Says Tommy Snooks to Bessy Brooks,
    "To-morrow will be Monday."


  Bow-wow-wow,
    Whose dog art thou?
  Little Tom Tucker's dog,
    Bow-wow-wow.


  

  Pease-porridge hot,
  Pease-porridge cold,
  Pease-porridge in the pot
  Nine days old.
  Spell me _that_ in four letters.
  I will.
  T-H-A-T.


  Ring the bell!
  Knock at the door!
  Lift up the latch!
  And walk in!


  Rub-a-dub-dub,
  Three men in a tub;
  And who do you think they be?
    The butcher, the baker,
    The candlestick-maker;
  Turn 'em out, knaves all three!


  Please to remember
  The Fifth of November,
  Gunpowder, treason, and plot;
    I know no reason
    Why gunpowder treason
  Should ever be forgot.


  My maid Mary she minds the dairy,
    While I go a-hoeing and mowing each morn;
  Gaily run the reel and the little spinning wheel,
    While I am singing and mowing my corn.


  Poor Dog Bright
  Ran off with all his might,
  Because the cat was after him--
  Poor Dog Bright!

  Poor Cat Fright
  Ran off with all her might,
  Because the dog was after her--
  Poor Cat Fright!


  All of a row,
  Bend the bow,
  Shot at a pigeon,
  And killed a crow.


  The cock doth crow,
  To let you know,
  If you be well,
  'Tis time to rise.


  The dove says, "Coo, coo, what shall I do?
  I can scarce maintain two."
  "Pooh! pooh!" says the wren; "I have got ten,
  And keep them all like gentlemen."


  

  This little pig went to market.
  This little pig stayed home.
  This little pig had roast meat.
  This little pig had none.
  This little pig went to the barn door
  And cried week, week, for more.


  The King of France went up the hill
    With twenty thousand men;
  The King of France came down the hill,
    And ne'er went up again.


  

  Little boy blue, come blow your horn;
  The sheep's in the meadow, the cow's in the corn.
  Where's the little boy that looks after the sheep?
  He's under the hay-cock, fast a-sleep.
  Will you wake him? No, not I;
  For if I do, he'll be sure to cry.


  See saw, Margery Daw,
    Jenny shall have a new master;
  She shall have but a penny a-day,
    Because she can't work any faster.


  A duck and a drake,
  And a halfpenny cake,
  With a penny to pay the old baker.
    A hop and a scotch
    Is another notch,
  Slitherum, slatherum, take her.


  Here stands a post,--
    Who put it there?
  A better man than you:
    Touch it if you dare?


  I'll tell you a story,
  About John-a-Nory:
    And now my story's begun.
  I'll tell you another,
  About Jack and his brother,
    And now my story's done.


  Toss up my darling, toss him up high,
  Don't let his head, though, hit the blue sky.


  Trip and go, heave and ho!
  Up and down, to and fro;
    From the town to the grove,
    Two and two, let us rove,
  A-maying, a-playing;
  Love hath no gainsaying!
    So merrily trip and go!
    So merrily trip and go!


  Sing, sing!--What shall I sing?
  The cat's run away with the pudding-bag string!


  Great A, little A,
  This is pancake day;
  Toss the ball high,
  Throw the ball low,
  Those that come after
  May sing Heigh-ho!


  Jack Sprat
  Had a cat,
  It had but one ear;
  It went to buy butter
  When butter was dear.


  

  Margaret wrote a letter,
    Sealed it with her finger,
  Threw it in the dam
    For the dusty miller.

  Dusty was his coat,
    Dusty was the siller,
  Dusty was the kiss
    I'd from the dusty miller.

  If I had my pockets
    Full of gold and siller,
  I would give it all
    To _my dusty miller_.


  

  Polly, Dolly, Kate and Molly,
  All are filled with pride and folly.

  Polly tattles,
  Dolly wriggles,
  Katy rattles,
  Molly giggles;

  Whoe'er knew such constant rattling,
  Wriggling, giggling, noise, and tattling.


  When I was taken from the fair body,
  They then cut off my head,
  And thus my shape was altered.
  It's I that make peace between King and ring,
  And many a true lover glad.
  All this I do, and ten times more,
  And more I could do still;
  But nothing can I do
  Without my guider's will.
                       A quill pen]


  Polly put the kettle on,
    Susy took it off;
  Aunt Jemima's little girl
    Has got the whooping cough.


  Phoebe rode a nanny goat,
    Susy broke her leg,
  Father took his wedding coat
    And hung it on a peg.


  There was an old woman
    Lived under a hill;
  She put a mouse in a bag,
    And sent it to the mill.

  The miller declar'd
    By the point of his knife,
  He never took toll
    Of a mouse in his life.


  "John, come sell thy fiddle,
    And buy thy wife a gown."
  "No, I'll not sell my fiddle,
    For ne'er a wife in town."


  Ding, dong, bell,
  Pussy's in the well!
  Who put her in?
  Little Johnny Green;
  Who pulled her out,
  Big Tom Stout;
  What a naughty boy was that
  To try and drown poor pussy cat,
  Who never did any harm,
  And killed the mice in his father's barn.


  

  As I was going up Pippen Hill,
    Pippen Hill was dirty;
  There I met a pretty Miss,
    And she dropped me a curtsy.

  Little Miss, pretty Miss,
    Blessing light upon you;
  If I had half a crown a-day,
    I'd spend it all upon you.


  Over the water,
  And under the water,
  And always with its head down.
                            Icicle]


  Illustration:

  _Little Bo-Peep has lost her sheep,
  And can't tell where to find them_]

  Little Bo-Peep has lost her sheep,
    And can't tell where to find them;
  Let them alone, and they'll come home,
    And bring their tails behind them.

  Little Bo-Peep fell fast asleep
    And dreamt she heard them bleating:
  But when she awoke she found it a joke,
    For still they all were fleeting.

  Then up she took her little crook,
    Determined for to find them;
  She found 'em indeed, but it made her heart bleed,
    For they'd left their tails behind 'em.

  It happened one day, as Bo-Peep did stray
    Unto a meadow hard by,
  There she espied their tails, side by side,
    All hung on a tree to dry.


  Higher than a house, higher than a tree,
  Oh, whatever can it be?
                                 A Star]


  

  The two gray kits
  And the gray kits' mother
  All went over
  The bridge together.
  The bridge broke down,
  They all fell in;
  May the rats go with you,
  Says Tom Robin.


  

  Elsie Marley has grown so fine,
  She won't get up to serve the swine;
  But lies in bed till eight or nine,
  And surely she does take her time.


Game on a child's features]

  Here sits the Lord Mayor          _forehead_
    Here sit his two men            _eyes_
  Here sits the cock                _right cheek_
    Here sits the hen               _left cheek_
  Here sit the little chickens      _top of nose_
    Here they run in                _mouth_
  Chinchopper, chinchopper,
    Chinchopper, chin!              _chuck the chin_


  There was an old woman she lived under a hill,
  And if she's not gone, she lives there still.
  Baked apples she sold, and cranberry pies,
  And she's the old woman that never told lies.


  The rose is red, the violet is blue,
  The gillyflower is sweet and so are you:
  These are the words you bade me say
  For a pair of new gloves on Easter-day.


  Tom, Tom, the piper's son,
  He learnt to play when he was young.
  He with his pipe made such a noise,
  That he pleased all the girls and boys.


  Some little mice sat in a barn to spin,
  Pussy came by, and she popped her head in;
  "Shall I come in and cut your threads off?"
  "Oh, no, kind sir, you will snap our heads off."


  

  Cock crows in the morn,
    To tell us to rise.
  And he who lies late
    Will never be wise:

  For early to bed,
    And early to rise,
  Is the way to be healthy
    And wealthy and wise.


  Ding, dong, darrow,
  The cat and the sparrow;
  The little dog has burnt his tail,
  And he shall be hanged to-morrow.


  

  To market, to market, to buy a plum cake,
  Home again, home again, market is late;
  To market, to market, to buy a plum bun,
  Home again, home again, market is done.


  There was a little girl who wore a little hood,
  And a curl down the middle of her forehead;
  When she was good, she was very, very good,
  But when she was bad, she was horrid.


  Bryan O'Lin had no breeches to wear,
  So he bought him a sheepskin and made him a pair.
  With the skinny side out, and the woolly side in,
  "Ah, ha, that is warm!" said Bryan O'Lin.


  Dogs in the garden, catch 'em, Towser;
    Cows in the cornfield, run, boys, run;
  Cats in the cream-pot, run, girls, run, girls;
    Fire on the mountains, run, boys, run.


  

  Lucy Locket lost her pocket,
  Kitty Fisher found it:
  Not a penny in it,
  But a ribbon 'round it.


  Illustration:

  _One foot up, the other foot down,
  And that is the way to London town_]

  See-saw, sacaradown, sacaradown.
  Which is the way to London town?
  One foot up, and the other foot down,
  That is the way to London town.


  On Saturday night, it shall be my care
  To powder my locks and curl my hair.
  On Sunday morning, my love will come in,
  When he will marry me with a gold ring.


  Daffy-down-dilly has come up to town
  In a fine petticoat and a green gown.


  

  Baa, baa, black sheep,
    Have you any wool?
  Yes, sir, yes, sir,
    Three bags full:

  

  One for the master,
    One for the dame,
  But none for the little boy
    Who cries in the lane.


  Pitty Patty Polt,
  Shoe the wild colt;
    Here a nail,
    And there a nail,
  Pitty Patty Polt.


  As high as a castle,
    As weak as a wastle;
  And all the king's horses
    Cannot pull it down.
                         Smoke]


  Eggs, butter, cheese, bread,
  Stick, stock, stone, dead.
  Stick him up, stick him down,
  Stick him in the old man's crown.


  Joseph Smith bought a rake,
    And sold it for some corn;
  He lived a week on johnny cake,
    And now he's dead and gone.


  Shoe the horse, and shoe the mare,
  But let the little colt go bare.


  

  There was an Old Woman,
    And what do you think?
  She lived upon nothing but
    Victuals and drink;
  And though victuals and drink
    Were the chief of her diet,
  This little Old Woman
    Could never be quiet.


  My story's ended, spoon is bended;
  If you don't like it,
  Go to the next door,
  And get it mended.


  Come when you're called,
    Do what you're bid;
  Shut the door after you,
    Never be chid.


  There was an old crow
    Sat upon a clod;
  There's an end of my song,
    That's odd!


  Little Robin Red-breast
    Sat upon a rail,
  Needle, naddle, went his head,
    Wiggle, waggle, went his tail.


  Play, play every day,
  Harry throws his time away.
  He must work and he must read,
  And then he'll be a man indeed.


  See-saw-Jack in the hedge,
  Which is the way to London Bridge?


  

  Little Nancy Etticote,
  In a white petticoat,
  With a red nose;
  The longer she stands,
  The shorter she grows.
                  A Candle]


  A red sky at night
  Is the shepherd's delight.
  A red sky in the morning
  Is the shepherd's warning.


  There was a little boy and a little girl
    Lived in our alley;
  Says the little boy to the little girl,
    "Shall I, oh, shall I?"
  Says the little girl to the little boy,
    "What shall we do?"
  Says the little boy to the little girl,
    "I will kiss you!"


  A good child, a good child,
    As I suppose you be;
  Never laugh nor smile,
    At the tickling of your knee.


  Little drops of water,
    Little grains of sand,
  Make the mighty ocean,
    And the pleasant land.


  Made in London,
    Sold at New York,
  Stops a bottle,
    And is a cork.


  Pit, pat, well-a-day,
  Little Robin flew away;
  Where can little Robin be?
  Gone into the cherry-tree.


  Illustration:

  _Little Miss Muffet sat on a tuffet,
  Eating of curds and whey_]

  Little Miss Muffet
  Sat on a tuffet,
  Eating of curds and whey;
    There came a spider,
    And sat down beside her,
  And frightened Miss Muffet away.


  Little lad, little lad,
  Where wast thou born?
  Far off in Lancashire,
  Under a thorn;
  Where they sup sour milk
  From a ram's horn.


  Hink minx! the old witch winks,
    The fat begins to fry:
  There's nobody home but jumping Joan,
    Father, Mother, and I.


  Little Cock Robin peeped out of his cabin
  To see the cold winter come in.
  Tit for tat, what matter for that?
  He'll hide his head under his wing!


  

  Little girl, little girl, where have you been?
  Gathering roses to give to the queen.
  Little girl, little girl, what gave she you?
  She gave me a diamond as big as my shoe.


  The cock's on the housetop blowing his horn;
  The bull's in the barn a-threshing of corn;
  The maids in the meadows are making of hay;
  The ducks in the river are swimming away.


  

  "Little maid, pretty maid, whither goest thou?"
  "Down in the forest to milk my cow."
  "Shall I go with thee?" "No, not now;
  When I send for thee, then come thou."


  The girl in the lane, that couldn't speak plain,
    Cried, "Gobble, gobble, gobble:"
  The man on the hill, that couldn't stand still,
    Went hobble, hobble, hobble.


  I had a little nut-tree, nothing would it bear
  But a silver nutmeg and a golden pear;
  The king of Spain's daughter came to visit me,
  And all was because of my little nut-tree.
  I skipped over water, I danced over sea,
  And all the birds in the air couldn't catch me.


  Pickeleem, pickeleem, pummis-stone!
  What is the news, my beautiful one?
  My pet doll-baby, Frances Maria,
  Suddenly fainted, and fell in the fire;
  The clock on the mantle gave the alarm,
  But all we could save was one china arm.


  

  Wash the dishes, wipe the dishes,
    Ring the bell for tea;
  Three good wishes, three good kisses,
    I will give to thee.


  Shoe the colt,
  Shoe the colt,
  Shoe the wild mare;
    Here a nail,
    There a nail,
  Yet she goes bare.


  Pussy sits beside the fire. How can she be fair?
  In walks a little doggy--Pussy, are you there?
  So, so, Mistress Pussy, how do you do?
  Thank you, thank you, little dog,
  I'm very well just now.


  One misty, moisty morning,
  When cloudy was the weather,
  I chanced to meet an old man clothed all in leather.
  He began to compliment, and I began to grin.
  How do you do, and how do you do?
    And how do you do again?


  There was an old woman, her name it was Peg;
  Her head was of wood, and she wore a cork leg.
  The neighbors all pitched her into the water,
  Her leg was drown'd first, and her head follow'd a'ter.


  Whistle, daughter, whistle; whistle, daughter dear.
  I cannot whistle, mammy, I cannot whistle clear.
  Whistle, daughter, whistle, whistle for a pound.
  I cannot whistle, mammy, I cannot make a sound.


  

  Little Betty Blue,
  Lost her holiday shoe.
  What will poor Betty do?
  Why, give her another,
  To match the other,
  And then she will walk in two.


  Jerry Hall, he is so small,
  A rat could eat him, hat and all.


  Friday night's dream, on Saturday told,
  Is sure to come true, be it ever so old.


  Illustration:

  _Ring-a-ring-a roses,
  A pocket full of posies_]

  Ring-a-round-a roses,
  A pocket full of posies;
  Hush--hush--hush--
  We'll all tumble down.


  Old father Grey Beard,
  Without tooth or tongue;
  If you'll give me your finger,
  I'll give you my thumb.


  Jockey was a piper's son,
  And he fell in love when he was young,
  And the only tune he could play
  Was, "Over the hills and far away";
  Over the hills and a great way off,
  And the wind will blow my top-knot off.


  Love your own, kiss your own,
    Love your own mother, hinny,
  For if she was dead and gone,
    You'd ne'er get such another, hinny.


  

  Little Poll Parrot
    Sat in her garret,
  Eating toast and tea;
    A little brown mouse
    Jumped into the house,
  And stole it all away.


  Little Miss Donnet
  Wears a huge bonnet;
  And hoops half as wide
  As the mouth of the Clyde.


  

  Deedle, deedle, dumpling, my son John,
  Went to bed with his stockings on;
  One shoe off, and one shoe on,
  Deedle, deedle, dumpling, my son John.


  There was an old woman in Surrey,
  Who was morn, noon and night in a hurry;
  Called her husband a fool,
  Drove the children to school,
  The worrying old woman of Surrey.


  Little Tommy Grace had a pain in his face,
  So bad he could not learn a letter;
  When in came Dicky Long,
  Singing such a funny song,
  That Tommy laughed, and found his face much better.


  There was an old woman had three cows,
  Rosy, and Colin, and Dun;
  Rosy and Colin were sold at the fair,
  And Dun broke his head in a fit of despair;
  And there was the end of her three cows,
  Rosy, and Colin, and Dun.


  Ride a cock-horse to Shrewsbury cross,
  To buy little Johnny a galloping horse:
  It trots behind and it ambles before,
  And Johnny shall ride--till he can ride no more.


  Rosemary green, and lavender blue,
  Thyme and sweet marjorum, hyssop and rue.


  Handy Spandy, Jack a-dandy,
  Loves plum-cake and sugar-candy;
  He bought some at a grocer's shop,
  And out he came, hop-hop-hop.


  

  There was a little girl who had a little curl
  Right in the middle of her forehead;
  When she was good, she was very, very good,
  And when she was bad she was horrid.


  The greedy man is he who sits
    And bites bits out of plates,
  Or else takes up an almanac
    And gobbles all the dates.


  

  One, he loves; two, he loves;
  Three, he loves, they say;
  Four, he loves with all his heart;
  Five, he casts away.
  Six, he loves; seven, she loves;
  Eight, they both love.
  Nine, he comes; ten, he tarries;
  Eleven, he courts; twelve, he marries.


  Hush, baby, my doll, I pray you, don't cry,
  And I'll give you some bread, and some milk by-and-bye;
  Or, perhaps, you like custard, or, maybe, a tart,
  Then to either you are welcome, with all my heart.


  An old woman lived in Nottingham town,
  Who owned a small house, and painted it brown;
  And yet this old woman grew crazy with fright,
  Lest some one should burn her house in the night.


  Bryan O'Lin and his wife, and wife's mother,
  They all went over the bridge together:
  The bridge broke down, and they all fell in,--
  The deuce go with all! said Bryan O'Lin.


  Little Miss Lily, you're dreadfully silly
    To wear such a very long skirt:
  If you take my advice, you would hold it up nice
    And not let it trail in the dirt.


  

  Lady-bug, lady-bug,
    Fly away home,
  Your house is on fire,
    Your children will burn.


  A swarm of bees in May
  Is worth a load of hay;
  A swarm of bees in June
  Is worth a silver spoon;
  A swarm of bees in July
  Is not worth a fly.


  Illustration:

  _Curly locks! Curly locks! wilt thou be mine?
  Thou shalt not wash dishes, nor yet feed the swine_]

  Curly locks! Curly locks! wilt thou be mine?
  Thou shalt not wash dishes, nor yet feed the swine;
  But sit on a cushion and sew a fine seam,
  And feed upon strawberries, sugar and cream!


  A cat came fiddling out of a barn.
  With a pair of bag-pipes under her arm:
  She could sing nothing but fiddle cum fee,
  The mouse has married the bumble-bee;
  Pipe, cat--dance, mouse,
  We'll have a wedding at our good house.


  I won't be my father's Jack,
  I won't be my mother's Jill,
  I will be the fiddler's wife,
  And have music when I will.
  T'other little tune,
  T'other little tune,
  Prythee, love, play me
  T'other little tune.


  Little maid, little maid,
  Whither goest thou?
  Down in the meadow
  To milk my cow.


  As the days grow longer
  The storms grow stronger.


  Hickory, dickory, sackory down
  How many miles to Richmond town?
  Turn to the left and turn to the right,
  And you may get there by Saturday night.


  

  One, two, buckle my shoe;
  Three, four, shut the door;
  Five, six, pick up sticks;
  Seven, eight, lay them straight;
  Nine, ten, a good fat hen;
  Eleven, twelve, who will delve;
  Thirteen, fourteen, maids a-courting;
  Fifteen, sixteen, maids a-kissing;
  Seventeen, eighteen, maids a-waiting;
  Nineteen, twenty, my stomach's empty.


  Wear you a hat, or wear you a crown,
  All that goes up must surely come down.


  

  There were two blackbirds
    Sitting on a hill.
  The one named Jack,
    And the other named Jill.
  Fly away, Jack!
  Fly away, Jill!
  Come again, Jack!
  Come again, Jill!


  Bat, bat, come under my hat,
    And I'll give you a slice of bacon;
  And when I bake, I'll give you a cake,
    If I am not mistaken.


  What God never sees,
  What the King seldom sees,
  What we see every day:
  Read my riddle, I pray.
                   An Equal]


  Lazy Tom, with jacket blue,
    Stole his father's gouty shoe;
  The worst of harm we can wish him,
    Is, his gouty shoe may fit him.


  Burnie bee, burnie bee,
  Tell me when your wedding be?
  If it be to-morrow day,
  Take your wings and fly away.


  A water there is, I must pass,
    A broader water never was;
  And yet of all waters I ever did see,
    To pass over with less jeopardy.
                                 The Dew]


  Draw a pail of water
  For my lady's daughter;
  My father's a king, and my mother's a queen,
  My two little sisters are dressed in green,
  Slumping grass and parsley,
  Marigold leaves and daisies.
  One rush! Two rush!
  Pray thee, fine lady, come under my rush.


  The old woman must stand at the tub, tub, tub,
  The dirty clothes to rub, rub, rub;
  But when they are clean, and fit to be seen,
  She'll dress like a lady, and dance on the green.


  

  Georgey Porgey, pudding and pie,
  Kissed the girls and made them cry;
  When the girls come out to play,
  Georgey Porgey runs away.


  Intery, mintery, cutery, corn,
  Apple seed, and apple thorn;
  Wine, brier, limber lock,
  Three geese in a flock,
  One flew east, one flew west,
  And one flew over the goose's nest.


  Tit, tat, toe,
  My first go,
  Three jolly butcher boys
  All in a row;
  Stick one up,
  Stick one down,
  Stick one on the old man's crown.


  

  Wee Willie Winkie
    Runs through the town,
  Up-stairs and down-stairs,
    In his night gown;
  Rapping at the window,
    Crying at the lock,
  "Are the children in their beds,
    For now it's ten o'clock?"


  Illustration:

  _Peter, Peter, pumpkin-eater,
  Had a wife and couldn't keep her_]

  Peter, Peter, pumpkin-eater;
  Had a wife, and couldn't keep her;
  He put her in a pumpkin shell,
  And there he kept her very well.

  Peter, Peter, pumpkin-eater;
  Had another and didn't love her;
  Peter learned to read and spell,
  And then he loved her very well.


The following lines are sung by children when starting for a race]

  Good horses, bad horses,
    What is the time of day?
  Three o'clock, four o'clock,
    Now fare you away.


Say quick]

  In fir tar is.
  In oak none is.
  In mud eel is.
  In clay none is.
  Goat eat ivy.
  Mare eat oats.


  Buz, quoth the blue fly,
    Hum, quoth the bee,
  Buz and hum they cry,
    And so do we:
  In his ear, in his nose,
    Thus, do you see?
  He ate the dormouse,
    Else it was me.


  Wasn't it funny? hear it all people!
  Little Tom Thum has swallowed a steeple!
  How did he do it?
  I'll tell you, my son:
  'Twas made of white sugar--and easily done!


  Hector Protector was dressed all in green;
  Hector Protector was sent to the Queen.
  The Queen did not like him,
  No more did the King:
  So Hector Protector was sent back again.


  Donkey, donkey, old and gray,
  Ope your mouth, and gently bray;
  Lift your ears and blow your horn,
  To wake the world this sleepy morn.


  

  When little Fred went to bed,
    He always said his prayers;
  He kissed mamma, and then papa,
    And straightway went up-stairs.


  Who comes here?
    "A grenadier."
  What do you want?
    "A pot of beer."
  Where is your money?
    "I've forgot."
  Get you gone,
    You can't have a drop.


  

  Multiplication is vexation,
    Division is as bad;
  The Rule of Three doth puzzle me,
    And Fractions drive me mad.


  Was ever heard such noise and clamor!
  The hatchet's jealous of the hammer!


Mind your Punctuation]

  I saw a peacock with a fiery tail,
  I saw a blazing comet drop down hail,
  I saw a cloud wrapped with ivy round,
  I saw an oak creep on the ground,
  I saw a snail swallow up a whale,
  I saw the sea brimful of ale,
  I saw a Venice glass full fifteen feet deep,
  I saw a well full of men's tears that weep,
  I saw red eyes all of a flaming fire,
  I saw a house bigger than the moon and higher,
  I saw the sun at twelve o'clock at night,
  I saw the man that saw this wondrous sight.


  

  Here am I, little jumping Joan,
  When nobody's with me, I'm always alone.


  There was a rat, for want of stairs,
  Went down a rope to say his prayers.


  Oh dear, what can the matter be
    Johnny's so long at the fair,
  He promised to buy me a bunch of blue ribbons
    To tie up my bonny brown hair.


  There was a man in our town,
    And he was wondrous wise;
  He jumped into a bramble bush,
    And scratch'd out both his eyes;

  And when he saw his eyes were out,
    With all his might and main,
  He jump'd into another bush,
    And scratch'd them in again.


  Elizabeth, Elspeth, Betsy and Bess,
  They all went together to seek a bird's nest.
  They found a bird's nest with five eggs in,
  They all took one, and left four in.


  

  Three Blind Mice,
  See how they run!
  They all ran after the farmer's wife,
  Who cut off their tails with a carving knife;
  Did ever you hear such a thing in your life
  As three blind mice?


  Illustration:

  _Rain, rain, go away;
  Come again another day_]

  Rain, rain, go away;
  Come again another day;
  Little Johnny wants to play.


  Clap, clap handies,
  Mammie's wee, wee ain;
    Clap, clap handies,
  Daddie's comin' hame,
  Hame till his bonny wee bit laddie;
    Clap, clap handies,
  My wee, wee ain.


  At the siege of Belleisle,
  I was there all the while,
  All the while, all the while,
  At the siege of Belleisle.


  Two little dogs
  Sat by the fire,
  Over a fender of coal-dust;
  Said one little dog
  To the other little dog,
  If you don't talk, why, I must.


  "Come, let's to bed,"
  Says Sleepy-head;
  "Tarry a while," says Slow.

  

  "Put on the pot,"
  Says the Greedy one,
  "Let's sup before we go."


  Up at Piccadilly, oh!
    The coachman takes his stand,
  And when he meets a pretty girl
    He takes her by the hand;
  Whip away forever, oh!
    Drive away so clever, oh!
  All the way to Bristol, oh!
    He drives her four-in-hand.


  Dickery, dickery, dock;
  The mouse ran up the clock;
  The clock struck One,
  The mouse ran down,
  Dickery, dickery, dock.


  Up hill and down dale;
  Butter is made in every vale;
  And if that Nancy Cook
  Is a good girl,
  She shall have a spouse,
  And make butter anon,
  Before her old grandmother
  Grows a young man.


  1, 2, 3, 4, 5!
    I caught a hare alive
  6, 7, 8, 9, 10!
    I let him go again.


  Mary had a little lamb with fleece as white as snow,
  And everywhere that Mary went the lamb was sure to go.
  It followed her to school one day, that was against the rule.
  It made the children laugh and play, to see a lamb at school.

  And so the teacher turned it out, but still it lingered near,
  And waited patiently about till Mary did appear.
  "Why does the lamb love Mary so," the eager children cry,
  "Why, Mary loves the lamb, you know!" the teacher did reply.


  

  I like little pussy,
    Her coat is so warm,
  And if I don't hurt her,
    She'll do me no harm;
  So I'll not pull her tail,
    Nor drive her away,
  But pussy and I
    Very gently will play.


  The calf, the goose, the bee,
  The world is ruled by these three.
                Parchment, pens, and wax]


  

  Sing a song of sixpence,
    A pocket full of rye;
  Four-and-twenty blackbirds
    Baked in a pie.

  When the pie was opened,
    The birds began to sing;
  Was not that a dainty dish
    To set before the king?

  The king was in his counting-house,
    Counting out his money;
  The queen was in the parlor,
    Eating bread and honey.

  The maid was in the garden,
    Hanging out the clothes;
  Down came a blackbird,
    And pecked off her nose.


  Three wise men of Gotham
  Went to sea in a bowl;
  If the bowl had been stronger,
  My song had been longer.


  Make three-fourths of a cross,
    And a circle complete;
  And let two semicircles
    On a perpendicular meet;
  Next add a triangle
    That stands on two feet;
  Next two semicircles,
   And a circle complete.
                      TOBACCO]


  My mother and your mother
  Went over the way;
  Said my mother to your mother,
  "It's chop-a-nose day."


  There was a crooked man,
    And he went a crooked mile,
  And he found a crooked sixpence
    Against a crooked stile;
  He bought a crooked cat,
    Which caught a crooked mouse,
  And they all lived together
    In a little crooked house.


  

  "Where are you going, my pretty maid?"
  "I'm going a-milking, sir," she said.

  "May I go with you, my pretty maid?"
  "You're kindly welcome, sir," she said.

  "What is your father, my pretty maid?"
  "My father's a farmer, sir," she said.

  "Say, will you marry me, my pretty maid?"
  "Yes, if you please, kind sir," she said.

  "What is your fortune, my pretty maid?"
  "My face is my fortune, sir," she said.

  "Then I can't marry you, my pretty maid."
  "Nobody asked you, sir!" she said.


  Illustration:

  _Mary, Mary, quite contrary,
  How does your garden grow?_]

  Mary, Mary quite contrary,
    How does your garden grow?
  Silver bells and cockle shells,
    And pretty maids all in a row.


  There was an old woman
    Called Nothing-at-all,
  Who rejoiced in a dwelling
    Exceedingly small:
  A man stretched his mouth
    To its utmost extent,
  And down at one gulp
    House and old woman went.


  Aena, deena, dina, duss,
  Kattle, weela, wila, wuss,
  Spit, spot, must be done,
  Twiddlum, twaddlum, twenty-one.
  O-u-t spells out!


  "What do they call you?"
  "Patchy Dolly."
  "Where were you born?"
  "In the cow's horn."
  "Where were you bred?"
  "In the cow's head."
  "Where will you die?"
  "In the cow's eye."


  The cuckoo's a fine bird,
    He sings as he flies;
  He brings us good tidings,
    He tells us no lies.

  He sucks little birds' eggs,
    To make his voice clear;
  And when he sings "cuckoo!"
    The summer is near.


  Come, my dear children,
    Up is the sun,
  Birds are all singing,
    And morn has begun.

  Up from the bed, Miss,
    Out on the lea;
  The horses are waiting
    For you and for me!


  Rock-a-bye, baby, thy cradle is green;
  Father's a nobleman, mother's a queen;
  And Betty's a lady, and wears a gold ring;
  And Johnny's a drummer, and drums for the king.


  

  There was an old woman tossed up in a basket,
    Ninety times as high as the moon:
  And where she was going, I couldn't but ask her,
    For in her hand she carried a broom.

  "Old woman, old woman, old woman," quoth I,
    "Whither, O whither, O whither so high?"
  "To sweep the cobwebs off the sky!"
    "Shall I go with you?" "Aye, by-and-by."


  Solomon Grundy,
  Born on a Monday,
  Christened on Tuesday,
  Married on Wednesday,
  Took ill on Thursday,
  Worse on Friday,
  Died on Saturday,
  Buried on Sunday:
  This is the end of
  Solomon Grundy.


  Hot cross buns,
    Hot cross buns,
  One a penny, two a penny,
    Hot cross buns.
  If your daughters
  Don't like 'em,
    Give them to your sons,
  One a penny, two a penny,
    Hot cross buns.


  Humpty-Dumpty sat on a wall,
  Humpty-Dumpty had a great fall;
  All the king's horses, and all the king's men,
  Cannot put Humpty-Dumpty together again.
                                       An Egg]


  My little old man and I fell out,
    I'll tell you what 'twas all about;
  I had money and he had none,
    And that's the way the noise begun.


  

  Little Tommy Tittlemouse
  Lived in a little house;
  He caught fishes
  In other men's ditches.


  The winds they did blow,
    The leaves they did wag;
  Along came a beggar boy,
    And put me in his bag--

  

  He took me up to London,
    A lady did me buy--
  Put me in a silver cage
    And hung me up on high--

  With apples by the fire,
    And nuts for to crack,
  Besides a little feather-bed,
    To rest my little back.


  There was a little green house,
  And in the little green house
  There was a little brown house,
  And in the little brown house
  There was a little yellow house,
  And in the little yellow house
  There was a little white house,
  And in the little white house
  There was a little heart.
                       A Walnut]


  Cry, baby, cry,
  Put your finger in your eye,
  And tell your mother it wasn't I.


  Willy boy, Willy boy,
    Where are you going?
  I will go with you, if I may.
  I am going to the meadows,
    To see them mowing,
  I am going to see them make hay.


  A hill full--a hole full,
  Yet you cannot catch a bowl full.
                               Mist]


  If ifs and ands
  Were pots and pans,
  There would be no need for tinkers!


  Illustration:

  _Jack fell down and broke his crown,
  And Jill came tumbling after_]

  Jack and Jill went up the hill,
    To fetch a pail of water;
  Jack fell down and broke his crown,
    And Jill came tumbling after.

  Up Jack got and home did trot,
    As fast as he could caper;
  Dame Jill had the job to plaster his knob,
    With vinegar and brown paper.


  There was a little one-eyed gunner,
  Who kill'd all the birds that died last summer.


  

  1. I am a gold lock.
  2. I am a gold key.
  1. I am a silver lock.
  2. I am a silver key.
  1. I am a brass lock.
  2. I am a brass key.
  1. I am a lead lock.
  2. I am a lead key.
  1. I am a monk lock.
  2. I am a monk key.


  There was an old woman of Leeds,
  Who spent all her time in good deeds;
    She worked for the poor
    Till her fingers were sore,
  This pious old woman of Leeds!


  Margery Mutton-pie and Johnny Bopeep,
  They met together in Gracechurch-Street;
  In and out, in and out, over the way,
  Oh! says Johnny, 'tis chop-nose day.


  What is the rhyme for porringer?
  The King he had a daughter fair.
  And gave the Prince of Orange her.


  

  See a pin and pick it up,
  All the day you'll have good luck.
  See a pin and let it lay,
  Bad luck you'll have all the day.


  Thirty days hath September,
  April, June, and November;
  All the rest have thirty-one--
  Except February, alone,
  Which has four and twenty-four,
  And every fourth year, one day more.


  

  Jack be nimble, Jack be quick,
  And Jack jump over the candlestick.


  I had a little pony
  I call'd him Dapple Gray,
  I lent him to a lady
  To ride a mile away.
  She whipped him, she slashed him,
  She rode him through the mire;
  I would not lend my pony now,
  For all the lady's hire.


  I went to the wood and got it;
  I sat me down and looked at it;
  The more I looked at it the less I liked it,
  And I brought it home because I couldn't help it.
                                        A Thorn]


  Darby and Joan were dress'd in black,
  Sword and buckle behind their back;
  Foot for foot, and knee for knee,
  Turn about Darby's company.


  There dwelt an old woman at Exeter;
  When visitors came it sore vexed her;
    So for fear they should eat,
    She locked up all her meat,
  This stingy old woman of Exeter.


  

  Mary had a pretty bird,--
    Feathers bright and yellow;
  Slender legs, upon my word,
    He was a pretty fellow--
  The sweetest notes he always sung,
    Which much delighted Mary;
  And near the cage she'd ever sit,
    To hear her own canary.


  Ladybird, ladybird, fly away home!
  Your house is on fire, your children all gone,
  All but one, and her name is Ann,
  And she crept under the pudding pan.


  Awake, arise, pull out your eyes,
    And hear what time of day;
  And when you have done,
  Pull out your tongue,
    And see what you can say.


  There was an old woman of Harrow,
  Who visited in a wheelbarrow;
    And her servant before,
    Knocked loud at each door,
  To announce the old woman of Harrow.


  Illustration:

  _There was an old woman who lived in a shoe,
  She had so many children, she didn't know what to do_]

  There was an old woman who lived in a shoe,
  She had so many children, she didn't know what to do.
  She gave them some broth, without any bread,
  She whipped them all around, and sent them to bed.


  Pussy Cat Mole,
  Jump'd over a Coal,
  And in her best petticoat burnt a great hole.
  Poor pussy's weeping, she'll have no more milk
  Until her best petticoat's mended with silk.


  

  Ride a cock-horse to Banbury Cross,
    To see a fine lady upon a white horse;
  With rings on her fingers and bells on her toes,
    She shall have music wherever she goes.


  I do not like thee, Dr. Fell,
  The reason why I cannot tell;
  But this I know, and know full well,
  I do not like thee, Dr. Fell.


  

  Cross Patch,
    Draw the latch,
  Sit by the fire and spin;
    Take a cup,
    And drink it up,
  And call your neighbors in.


  Charley Warley had a cow,
  Black and white about the brow,
  Open the gate and let her through,
  Charley Warley's old cow!


  Doctor Faustus was a good man,
  He whipped his scholars now and then;
  When he whipped them he made them dance
  Out of Scotland into France,
  Out of France into Spain,
  And then he whipped them back again!


  Riddle-me riddle-me riddle-me-ree,
  Perhaps you can tell what this riddle may be:
  As deep as a house, as round as a cup,
  And all the king's horses can't draw it up.
                                      A Well]


  

  

  The man in the wilderness asked me,
  How many strawberries grew in the sea?
  I answered him,
  As I thought good,
  As many as red herrings
  Grew in the wood.


  Miss Jane had a bag, and a mouse was in it,
  She opened the bag, he was out in a minute.
  The cat saw him jump, and run under the table,
  And the dog said, Catch him, puss, soon as you're able.


  The Man in the Moon looked out of the moon,
  Looked out of the moon and said,
  "'Tis time for all children on the earth
  To think about getting to bed!"


  A riddle, a riddle, as I suppose,
  A hundred eyes, and never a nose.
                            A cinder-sifter]


  Butterfly, butterfly, whence do you come?
  I know not, I ask not, I never had home.
  Butterfly, butterfly, where do you go?
  Where the sun shines, and where the buds grow.


  "Robert Barnes, fellow fine,
  Can you shoe this horse of mine?"
  "Yes, good sir, that I can,
  As well as any other man:
  Here a nail, and there a prod,
  And now, good sir, your horse is shod."


  Tommy Trot, a man of laws,
  Sold his bed and lay upon straws;
  Sold the straw, and slept on grass,
  To buy his wife a looking-glass.


  

  Hickety, pickety, my black hen,
  She lays good eggs for gentlemen;
  Gentlemen come every day,
  To see what my black hen doth lay.


  One for the money,
    Two for the show,
  Three to make ready,
    And four to go.


  

  There's a neat little clock,
    In the schoolroom it stands,
  And it points to the time
    With its two little hands.

  And may we, like the clock,
    Keep a face clean and bright,
  With hands ever ready
    To do what is right.


  Jack Spratt could eat no fat,
    His wife could eat no lean,
  And so, betwixt them both, you see,
    They licked the platter clean.
            MORAL:
               Better to go to bed supperless than to rise in debt.


  A long-tailed pig, or a short-tailed pig,
    Or a pig without e'er a tail,
  A sow-pig, or a boar-pig,
    Or a pig with a curly tail.
            MORAL:
               Take hold of his tail,
                 And eat off his head,
               And then you will be sure
                 The pig-hog is dead.


  When I was a bachelor, I lived by myself,
  And all the bread and cheese I got I put upon a shelf;
  The rats and the mice did lead me such a life,
  That I went to market, to get myself a wife.

  The streets were so broad, and the lanes were so narrow,
  I could not get my wife home without a wheel-barrow:
  The wheel-barrow broke, my wife got a fall,
  Down tumbled wheel-barrow, little wife, and all.
            MORAL:
               Provide against the world, and hope for the best.


  

  Little Tommy Tucker,
  Sings for his supper;
  What shall he eat?
  White bread and butter.
  How shall he cut it
  Without e'er a knife?
  How will he be married
  Without e'er a wife?


  Tell-tale tit!
  Your tongue shall be slit,
  And all the dogs in the town
  Shall have a little bit.


  Little Jack Horner
  Sat in a corner,
  Eating a Christmas pie;
  He put in his thumb,
  And pulled out a plum,
  And said, "What a good boy am I!"


  Heigh, diddle, diddle,
  The cat and the fiddle,
  The cow jumped over the moon;
  The little dog laughed
  To see such sport,
  And the dish ran away with the spoon.


  Robin and Richard were two pretty men;
  They lay in bed till the clock struck ten;
  Then up starts Robin, and looks in the sky,
  Oh! brother Richard, the sun's very high!


  See, saw, Margery Daw,
    Jacky shall have a new master;
  Jacky must have but a penny a day,
    Because he can't work any faster.


  Great A, little a,
    Bouncing B!
  The cat's in the cupboard,
    And can't see me.


  Three children sliding on the ice
    Upon a summer's day,
  As it fell out, they all fell in--
    The rest they ran away.

  Now had these children been at home,
    Or sliding on dry ground,
  Ten thousand pounds to one penny,
    They had not all been drown'd.

  Ye parents who have children dear,
    And eke ye that have none,
  If you would keep them safe abroad,
    Pray keep them safe at home.


  

  Ding, dong, bell,
  The cat is in the well!
  Who put her in?
  Little Johnny Green;
  What a naughty boy was that
  To try to drown poor pussy cat,
  Who never did any harm,
  And killed the mice in his father's barn.
        MORAL:
            He that injures one threatens a hundred.


  Cock a doodle doo!
  My dame has lost her shoe;
  My master's lost his fiddling stick,
  And don't know what to do.


The following is a game played as follows: A string of boys and girls,
each holding by his predecessor's skirts, approaches two others, who
with joined and elevated hands form a double arch. After the dialogue,
the line passes through, and the last is caught by a sudden lowering of
the arm--if possible.]

  How many miles is it to Babylon?
    Threescore miles and ten.
  Can I get there by candle-light?
    Yes, and back again!
  If your heels are nimble and light,
  You may get there by candle-light.


  Now go to sleep, my little son,
    Or I shall have to spank you;
  How do you do? says uncle John--
    I'm pretty well, I thank you.


  

  Dance to your daddy,
  My little babby;
  Dance to your daddy,
  My little lamb.

  You shall have a fishy
  In a little dishy;
  You shall have a fishy
  When the boat comes in.


  A sunshine shower
  Won't last half an hour.
  As the day lengthens,
  So the cold strengthens.
  The fishes' cry
  Is never long dry.


  Hickery, dickery, 6 and 7,
  Alabone, crackabone, 10 and 11;
  Spin, spun, muskidem,
  Twiddle 'em, twaddle 'em, 21.


  If all the seas were one sea,
  What a _great_ sea that would be!
  And if all the trees were one tree,
  What a _great_ tree that would be!
  And if all the axes were one axe,
  What a _great_ axe that would be!
  And if all the men were one man,
  What a _great_ man he would be!
  And if the _great_ man took the _great_ axe,
  And cut down the _great_ tree,
  And let it fall into the _great_ sea,
  What a splish, splash _that_ would be!


  Hark! hark! the dogs do bark,
    The beggars have come to town;
  Some in rags, and some in tags,
    And some in velvet gowns.


  For every evil under the sun,
  There is a remedy, or there is none.
  If there be one, try and find it,
  If there be none, never mind it.


  As I was going up and down,
  I met a little dandy,
  He pulled my nose, and with two blows
  I knocked him down quite handy.


  I bought a dozen new-laid eggs,
    Of good old farmer Dickens;
  I hobbled home upon two legs,
    And found them full of chickens.


  Swan, swam over the sea;
  Swim, swan, swim,
  Swan, swam back again;
  Well, swum, swan.


  Bossy-cow, bossy-cow, where do you lie?
  In the green meadow under the sky.

  Billy-horse, billy-horse, where do you lie?
  Out in the stable with nobody nigh.

  Birdies bright, birdies sweet, where do you lie?
  Up in the tree-tops,--oh, ever so high!

  Baby dear, baby love, where do _you_ lie?
  In my warm crib, with Mamma close by.


  Nose, nose, jolly red nose;
  And what gave thee that jolly red nose?
  Nutmegs and cinnamon, spices and cloves,
  And they gave me this jolly red nose.


  

  Pussy-cat, pussy-cat, where have you been?
  I've been to London to visit the Queen!
  Pussy-cat, pussy-cat, what did you there?
  I frighten'd a little mouse under her chair.


  Bobby Shaftoe's gone to sea,
    Silver buckles on his knee;
  He'll come back and marry me,
    Pretty Bobby Shaftoe.

  Bobby Shaftoe's fat and fair,
    Combing down his yellow hair;
  He's my love for evermore;
    Pretty Bobby Shaftoe.


  

  "Will you walk into my parlor?" said the spider to the fly;
  "'Tis the prettiest little parlor that ever you did spy.
  The way into my parlor is up a winding stair;
  And I have many curious things to show you when you're there."

  "Oh, no, no," said the little fly; "to ask me is in vain;
  For who goes up your winding stair can ne'er come down again."

  "I'm sure you must be weary, dear, with soaring up so high;
  Will you rest upon my little bed?" said the spider to the fly.
  "There are pretty curtains drawn around; the sheets are fine and thin;
  And if you like to rest awhile, I'll snugly tuck you in!"
  "Oh, no, no," said the little fly; "for I've often heard it said,
  They never, never wake again, who sleep upon your bed!"

  Said the cunning spider to the fly,--
  "Dear friend, what can I do
  To prove the warm affection I've always felt for you?"

  "I thank you, gentle sir," she said, "for what you're pleased to say,
  And bidding you good-morning now, I'll call another day."

  The spider turned him round about, and went into his den,
  For well he knew the silly fly would soon come back again;
  So he wove a subtle web in a little corner sly,
  And set his table ready, to dine upon the fly.
  Then he came out to his door again, and merrily did sing,--
  "Come hither, hither, pretty fly, with the pearl and silver wing;

  Your robes are green and purple, there's a crest upon your head!
  Your eyes are like the diamond bright, but mine are dull as lead!"

  Alas! alas! how very soon this silly little fly,
  Hearing his wily, flattering words, came slowly flitting by.
  With buzzing wings she hung aloft, then near and nearer drew,
  Thinking only of her brilliant eyes, her green and purple hue,--
  Thinking only of her crested head--poor foolish thing! At last,
  Up jumped the cunning spider, and fiercely held her fast!
  He dragged her up his winding stair, into his dismal den,
  Within his little parlor,--but she ne'er came out again!

  And now, dear little children, who may this story read,
  To idle, silly, flattering words, I pray you ne'er give heed;
  Unto an evil counsellor close heart and ear and eye,
  And take a lesson from this tale of the Spider and the Fly.


  One, two, three, four,
  Mary at the cottage door;
  Five, six, seven, eight,
  Eating cherries off a plate;
  O-U-T spells out!


  One, two, three, four, five,
  Catching fishes all alive.
  Why did you let them go?
  Because they bit my finger so.
  Which finger did they bite?
  The little finger on the right.


  Of all the gay birds that e'er I did see,
  The owl is the fairest by far to me;
  For all the day long she sits on a tree,
  And when the night comes, away flies she.


  St. Swithin's day, if thou dost rain,
  For forty days it will remain;
  St. Swithin's day, if thou be fair,
  For forty days 'twill rain na mair.


  There once were two cats of Kilkenny,
  Each thought there was one cat too many,
  So they fought and they fit,
  And they scratched and they bit,
  Till, excepting their nails
  And the tips of their tails,
  Instead of two cats, there weren't any.


  1 This pig went to the barn;
  2 This ate all the corn;
  3 This said he would tell;
  4 This said he wasn't well;
  5 This went week, week, week, over the door sill.


    There was a little man,
    And he had a little gun,
  And his bullets were made of lead, lead, lead;
    He went to the brook
    And saw a little duck,
  And he shot it through the head, head, head.

    He carried it home
    To his old wife Joan,
  And bid a fire for to make, make, make,
    To roast the little duck,
    He had shot in the brook,
  And he'd go and fetch her the drake, drake, drake.


  As I was going o'er London Bridge,
  I met a cart full of fingers and thumbs!
                               Gloves.]


  Come to the window,
    My baby, with me,
  And look at the stars
    That shine on the sea!
  There are two little stars
    That play at bo-peep
  With two little fish
    Far down in the deep;
  And two little frogs
    Cry neap, neap, neap;
  I see a dear baby
    That should be asleep.


  There was an old woman
    And nothing she had;
  And so this old woman
    Was said to be mad.
  She'd nothing to eat,
    She'd nothing to wear,
  She'd nothing to lose,
    She'd nothing to fear,
  She'd nothing to ask,
    And nothing to give,
  And when she did die,
    She'd nothing to leave.


  I had a little husband, no bigger than my thumb;
  I put him in a pint-pot, and there I bid him drum.

  I bought a little horse, that galloped up and down;
  I saddled him and bridled him, and sent him out of town.

  I gave him some garters, to garter up his hose,
  And a little pocket handkerchief to wipe his pretty nose.


  Goosey, goosey, gander, wither dost thou wander?
  Up stairs, and down stairs, and in my lady's chamber.
  There I met an old man, who would not say his prayers;
  I took him by the left leg, and threw him down stairs.


  

  Little Polly Flinders
  Sat among the cinders,
    Warming her pretty little toes;
  Her mother came and caught her,
  And whipped her little daughter
    For spoiling her nice new clothes.


  If all the world was apple-pie,
    And all the sea was ink,
  And all the trees were bread and cheese,
    What should we have to drink?


  Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
  How I wonder what you are!
  Up above the world so high,
  Like a diamond in the sky.

  When the blazing sun is gone,
  When he nothing shines upon,
  Then you show your little light,
  Twinkle, twinkle, all the night.

  When the traveller in the dark
  Thanks you for your tiny spark:
  How could he see where to go
  If you did not twinkle so?

  In the dark blue sky you keep,
  Often through my curtains peep,
  For you never shut your eye,
  Till the sun is in the sky.

  As your bright and tiny spark
  Lights the traveller in the dark,
  Though I know not what you are,
  Twinkle, twinkle, little star.


  The man in the moon
  Came tumbling down,
  And asked the way to Norwich.
  He went by the South,
  And he burnt his mouth,
  With eating cold pease porridge.


  Hub a dub, dub,
  Three men in a tub;
  The butcher, the baker,
  The candlestick maker;
  All jumped out of an Irish potato.


  Bell-horses, bell-horses,
    What time of day?
  One o'clock, two o'clock,
    Off and away.


  Tweedle-dum and tweedle-dee
    Resolved to have a battle,
  For tweedle-dum said tweedle-dee
    Had spoiled his nice new rattle.
  Just then flew by a monstrous crow,
    As big as a tar-barrel,
  Which frightened both the heroes so,
    They quite forgot their quarrel.


  

  Tom, Tom, the piper's son,
  Stole a pig and away he run;
  The pig was eat, and Tom was beat,
  And Tom ran crying down the street.


  If all the world were water,
    And all the water were ink,
  What should we do for bread and cheese?
    What should we do for drink?


  Ten little Injuns standing in a line--
  One went home, and then there were nine.

  Nine little Injuns swinging on a gate--
  One tumbled off, and then there were eight.

  Eight little Injuns never heard of heaven--
  One kicked the bucket, and then there were seven.

  Seven little Injuns cutting up tricks--
  One went to bed and then there were six.

  Six little Injuns kicking all alive--
  One broke his neck, and then there were five.

  Five little Injuns on a cellar door--
  One tumbled off, and then there were four.

  Four little Injuns climbing up a tree--
  One fell down, and then there were three.

  Three little Injuns out in a canoe--
  One fell overboard, and then there were two.

  Two little Injuns fooling with a gun--
  One shot the other, and then there was one.

  One little Injun living all alone--
  He got married, and then there was none!


  Jack Spratt's pig,
    He was not very little,
  Nor yet very big;
    He was not very lean,
  He was not very fat--
    He'll do well for a grunt,
  Says little Jack Spratt.


  Hush-a-bye, baby,
  Daddy is near;
  Mamma is a lady,
  And that's very clear.


  This is the way the ladies ride,
    Tri, tre, tri, tree, tri, tre, tri, tree!
  This is the way the ladies ride;
    Tri, tre, tri, tree, tri, tre, tri, tree!

  This is the way the gentlemen ride!
    Gallop-a-trot, gallop-a-trot!
  This is the way the gentlemen ride!
    Gallop-a-trot, gallop-a-trot!

  This is the way the farmers ride!
    Hobbledy-hop, hobbledy-hop!
  This is the way the farmers ride!
    Hobbledy-hop, hobbledy-hop!


  

  Father, may I go to war?
    Yes, you may, my son;
  Wear your woollen comforter,
    But don't fire off your gun.


  There was an owl lived in an oak,
    Wisky, wasky, weedle;
  And every word he ever spoke
    Was fiddle, faddle, feedle.

  A gunner chanced to come that way,
    Wisky, wasky, weedle;
  Says he, "I'll shoot you, silly bird."
    Fiddle, faddle, feedle.


  Nancy Dawson has grown so fine
  She won't get up to serve the swine;
  She lies in bed till eight or nine,
  So it's Oh, poor Nancy Dawson.

  And do ye ken Nancy Dawson, honey?
  The wife who sells the barley, honey?
  She won't get up to feed her swine,
  And do ye ken Nancy Dawson, honey?


  Old Grimes is dead, that good old man,
    We ne'er shall see him more;
  He used to wear a long brown coat
    All buttoned down before.


To be read rapidly.]

  Peter Piper picked a peck
    Of pickled pepper;
  A peck of pickled pepper
    Peter Piper picked;
  If Peter Piper picked a peck
    Of pickled pepper,
  Where's the peck of pickled pepper
    Peter Piper picked?


  Smiling girls, rosy boys,
  Come and buy my little toys;
  Monkeys made of gingerbread,
  And sugar horses painted red.


  My pussy cat
  Has got the gout,
  And the rats and mice
  Can play about.


  Brow brinky,
    Eye winky,
      Chin choppy,
        Nose noppy,
          Cheek cherry,
            Mouth merry.


  Merry are the bells, and merry would they ring,
  Merry was myself, and merry could I sing;
  With a merry ding-dong, happy, gay, and free,
  And a merry sing-song, happy let us be!

  Waddle goes your gait, and hollow are your hose,
  Noodle goes your pate, and purple is your nose;
  Merry is your sing-song, happy, gay, and free,
  With a merry ding-dong, happy let us be!

  Merry have we met, and merry have we been,
  Merry let us part, and merry meet again;
  With our merry sing-song, happy, gay, and free,
  And a merry ding-dong, happy let us be!


  Come hither, sweet robin,
    And be not afraid,
  I would not hurt even a feather;
  Come hither, sweet robin,
    And pick up some bread,
  To feed you this very cold weather.

  I don't mean to frighten you,
      Poor little thing,
    And pussy-cat is not behind me;
  So hop about pretty,
      And drop down your wing,
    And pick up some crumbs,
      And don't mind me.


  God bless the master of this house,
    The mistress bless also,
  And all the little children
    That round the table go;
  And all your kin and kinsmen,
    That dwell both far and near:
  I wish you a merry Christmas,
    And a happy new year.


  Little Tom Twig bought a fine bow and arrow,
  And what did he shoot? why, a poor little sparrow,
  Oh, fie, little Tom, with your fine bow and arrow,
  How cruel to shoot at a poor little sparrow.


  When Jacky's a very good boy,
    He shall have cakes and a custard;
  But when he does nothing but cry,
    He shall have nothing but mustard.


  I love you well, my little brother,
    And you are fond of me;
  Let us be kind to one another,
    As brothers ought to be.
  You shall learn to play with me.
    And learn to use my toys;
  And then I think that we shall be
    Two happy little boys.


  Here we go round the mulberry bush,
  The mulberry bush, the mulberry bush,
  Here we go round the mulberry bush,
  On a cold and frosty morning.

  This is the way we wash our hands,
  Wash our hands, wash our hands,
  This is the way we wash our hands,
  On a cold and frosty morning.

  This is the way we wash our clothes,
  Wash our clothes, wash our clothes,
  This is the way we wash our clothes,
  On a cold and frosty morning.

  This is the way we go to school,
  Go to school, go to school,
  This is the way we go to school,
  On a cold and frosty morning.

  This is the way we come out of school,
  Come out of school, come out of school,
  This is the way we come out of school,
  On a cold and frosty morning.


  Christmas comes but once a year,
  And when it comes it brings good cheer.


  A sunshiny shower
  Won't last half an hour.


  A carrion crow sat on an oak,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, he ding do,
  Watching a tailor shape his coat!
      Sing he, sing ho, the old carrion crow.
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, he ding do.

  Wife, bring me my old bent bow,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, he ding do,
  That I may shoot yon carrion crow.
      Sing he, sing ho, the old carrion crow.
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, he ding do.

  The tailor shot, and he missed his mark,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, he ding do,
  And shot the miller's sow right through the heart
      Sing he, sing ho, the old carrion crow.
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, he ding do.

  Wife! oh wife! bring brandy in a spoon,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, he ding do,
  For the old miller's sow is in a swoon,
      Sing he, sing ho, the old carrion crow.
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, he ding do.


  Speak when you're spoken to,
    Come when once called;
  Shut the door after you,
    And turn to the wall!


  Birds of a feather flock together,
    And so will pigs and swine;
  Rats and mice will have their choice,
    And so will I have mine.


  Robin the Bobbin, the big-bellied Ben,
  He eat more meat than fourscore men;
  He eat a cow, he eat a calf,
  He eat a hog and a half;
  He eat a church, he eat a steeple,
  He eat the priest and all the people!
      A cow and a calf,
      An ox and a half,
      A church and a steeple,
      And all the good people,
  And yet he complain'd that his stomach wasn't full.


  A glass of milk and a slice of bread,
  And then good-night, we must go to bed.


  I have a little sister; they call her Peep, Peep.
  She wades the water deep, deep, deep;
  She climbs the mountains, high, high, high--
  Poor little thing! she has but one eye.
                                   A Star]


  Monday's bairn is fair of face,
  Tuesday's bairn is full of grace,
  Wednesday's bairn is full of woe,
  Thursday's bairn has far to go,
  Friday's bairn is loving and giving,
  Saturday's bairn works hard for its living;
  But the bairn that is born on the Sabbath day
  Is bonny, and blithe, and good and gay.


  This is the House that Jack built
  This is the Malt
  That lay in the house that Jack built.

  This is the Rat, that ate the malt,
  That lay in the house that Jack built.

  This is the Cat, that killed the rat,
  That ate the malt,
  That lay in the house that Jack built.

  This is the Dog, that worried the cat,
  That killed the rat, that ate the malt,
  That lay in the house that Jack built.

  This is the Cow, with the crumpled horn
  That tossed the dog, that worried the cat,
  That killed the rat, that ate the malt,
  That lay in the house that Jack built.

  

  This is the Maiden all forlorn,
  That milk'd the cow with the crumpled horn,
  That toss'd the dog, that worried the cat,
  That kill'd the rat, that ate the malt,
  That lay in the house that Jack built.

  This is the Man all tatter'd and torn,
  That kiss'd the maiden all forlorn,
  That milk'd the cow with the crumpled horn,
  That toss'd the dog, that worried the cat,
  That kill'd the rat, that ate the malt,
  That lay in the house that Jack built.

  This is the Priest all shaven and shorn,
  That married the man all tatter'd and torn,
  That kiss'd the maiden all forlorn,
  That milk'd the cow with the crumpled horn,
  That toss'd the dog, that worried the cat,
  That kill'd the rat, that ate the malt,
  That lay in the house that Jack built.

  This is the Cock that crow'd in the morn,
  That waked the priest all shaven and shorn,
  That married the man all tatter'd and torn,
  That kiss'd the maiden all forlorn,
  That milk'd the cow with the crumpled horn,
  That toss'd the dog, that worried the cat,
  That kill'd the rat, that ate the malt,
  That lay in the house that Jack built.

  This is the Farmer who sow'd the corn,
  That kept the cock that crow'd in the morn,
  That waked the priest all shaven and shorn,
  That married the man all tatter'd and torn,
  That kiss'd the maiden all forlorn,
  That milk'd the cow with the crumpled horn,
  That toss'd the dog, that worried the cat,
  That kill'd the rat, that ate the malt,
  That lay in the house that Jack built.


  Hiram Gordon, where's your pa?
    He's gone with Uncle Peter,
  To put a board across the fence,
    So that we boys can teeter.


  Taffy was a Welchman, Taffy was a thief,
  Taffy came to my house and stole a piece of beef;
  I went to Taffy's house, Taffy wasn't home,
  Taffy came to my house and stole a marrow-bone;
  I went to Taffy's house, Taffy was in bed,
  I took the marrow-bone, and beat about his head.


  Blow, wind, blow! and go, mill, go!
    That the miller may grind his corn;
  That the baker may take it,
  And into rolls make it,
    And send us some hot in the morn.


  1. I went up one pair of stairs,
  2. Just like me.
  1. I went up two pair of stairs,
  2. Just like me.
  1. I went into a room,
  2. Just like me.
  1. I looked out of a window,
  2. Just like me.
  1. And then I saw a monkey,
  2. Just like me.


  The Queen of Hearts
  She made some tarts,
    All on a summer's day.
  The Knave of Hearts,
  He stole the tarts,
    And took them clean away.

  The King of Hearts,
  Called for the tarts,
    And beat the Knave full sore.
  The Knave of Hearts
  Brought back the tarts,
    And vow'd he'd steal no more.


  

  A frog he would a-wooing go,
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  Whether his mother would let him or no:
        With a rowley, powley, gammon and spinach.
  Heigho, says Anthony Rowley.

  So off he set with his opera hat,
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  And on the road he met a rat,
        With a rowley, powley, etc.

  "Pray, Mr. Rat, will you go with me,"
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  "Kind Mrs. Mousey for to see?"
        With a rowley, powley, etc.

  When they came to the door at Mousey's hall,
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  They gave a loud tap, and they gave a loud call,
        With a rowley, powley, etc.

  "Pray, Mrs. Mouse, are you within?"
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  "Yes, kind sirs, and sitting to spin."
        With a rowley, powley, etc.

  "Pray, Mrs. Mouse, now give us some beer,"
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  "That Froggy and I am fond of good cheer."
        With a rowley, powley, etc.

  "Pray, Mr. Frog, will you give us a song?"
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  "But let it be something that's not very long."
        With a rowley, powley, etc.

  "Indeed, Mrs. Mouse," replied the Frog,
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  "A cold has made me as horse as a hog."
        With a rowley, powley, etc.

  "Since you have caught cold, Mr. Frog," Mousey said,
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  "I'll sing you a song that I have just made."
        With a rowley, powley, etc.

  But while they were all a-merrymaking,
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  A Cat and her kittens came tumbling in.
        With a rowley, powley, etc.

  The Cat she seized the Rat by the crown,
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  The kittens they pulled the little Mouse down.
        With a rowley, powley, etc.

  This put Mr. Frog in a terrible fright,
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  He took up his hat and he wished them good-night.
        With a rowley, powley, etc.

  As Froggy was crossing it over a brook,
              Heigho, says Rowley;
  A lilywhite Duck came and gobbled him up.
        With a rowley, powley, etc.

  So here is an end of one, two three--
              Heigho, says Rowley,
  The Rat, the Mouse, and little Froggy.
        With a rowley, powley, etc.


  Ladies and gentlemen, come to supper,
  Hot boiled beans and very good butter.


  The North Wind doth blow,
  And we shall have snow,
  And what will poor Robin do then?

  He will hop to a barn,
  And to keep himself warm,
  Will hide his head under his wing,
                    Poor thing!


  

  There was an old woman, as I've heard tell,
  She went to market her eggs for to sell;
  She went to market all on a market day,
  And she fell asleep on the king's highway.

  By came a peddler, whose name was Stout,
  He cut her petticoats all round about;
  He cut her petticoats up to the knees,
  Which made the old woman to shiver and freeze.

  "But if it be I, as I hope it be,
  I've a little dog at home, and he'll know me;
  If it be I, he'll wag his little tail,
  And if it be not I, he'll loudly bark and wail."

  Home went the little woman all in the dark,
  Up got the little dog, and he began to bark;
  He began to bark, so she began to cry,
  "Lauk a mercy on me, this is none of I."

  When the little old woman first did wake,
  She began to shiver, and she began to shake;
  She began to wonder, and she began to cry,
  "Lauk a mercy on me, this can't be I!"


  I had four brothers over the sea.
    Perrie, Merrie, Dixie, Dominie.
  And they each sent a present unto me,
    Petrum, Partrum, Paradise, Temporie,
    Perrie, Merrie, Dixie, Dominie.

  The first sent a chicken, without any bones;
  The second sent a cherry, without any stones,
    Petrum, Partrum, Paradise, Temporie,
    Perrie, Merrie, Dixie, Dominie.

  The third sent a book, which no man could read;
  The fourth sent a blanket, without any thread.
    Petrum, Partrum, Paradise, Temporie,
    Perrie, Merrie, Dixie, Dominie.

  How could there be a chicken without any bones?
  How could there be a cherry without any stones?
    Petrum, Partrum, Paradise, Temporie,
    Perrie, Merrie, Dixie, Dominie.

  How could there be a book which no man could read?
  How could there be a blanket without a thread?
    Petrum, Partrum, Paradise, Temporie,
    Perrie, Merrie, Dixie, Dominie.

  When the chicken's in the egg-shell, there are no bones,
  When the cherry's in the blossom, there are no stones.
    Petrum, Partrum, Paradise, Temporie,
    Perrie, Merrie, Dixie, Dominie.

  When the book's in ye press no man it can read;
  When the wool is on the sheep's back, there is no thread.
    Petrum, Partrum, Paradise, Temporie,
    Perrie, Merrie, Dixie, Dominie.


  Sneeze on Monday, sneeze for danger;
  Sneeze on Tuesday, kiss a stranger;
  Sneeze on Wednesday, receive a letter;
  Sneeze on Thursday, something better;
  Sneeze on Friday, expect sorrow;
  Sneeze on Saturday, joy to-morrow.


  It costs little Gossip her income for shoes,
  To travel about and carry the news.


  

  Here's Sulky Sue,
  What shall we do?
  Turn her face to the wall
  Till she comes to.


  Pease porridge hot,
  Pease porridge cold,
  Pease porridge in the pot nine days old.
  Some like it hot,
  Some like it cold,
  Some like it in the pot nine days old.
  Spell me _that_ with a P
  And a clever scholar you will be.


  Three little kittens they lost their mittens,
  And they began to cry,
          "Oh! mammy dear,
          We sadly fear,
      Our mittens we have lost!"
  "What! lost your mittens,
  You naughty kittens,
      Then you shall have no pie."
          Miew, miew, miew, miew,
          Miew, miew, miew, miew.

  The three little kittens they found their mittens,
  And they began to cry.
          "Oh! mammy dear,
          See here, see here,
      Our mittens we have found."
  "What! found your mittens,
  You little kittens,
      Then you shall have some pie."
          Purr, purr, purr, purr,
          Purr, purr, purr, purr.

  The three little kittens put on their mittens,
  And soon ate up the pie;
          "Oh! mammy dear,
          We greatly fear,
      Our mittens we have soil'd."

  "What! soil'd your mittens,
  You naughty kittens!"
      Then they began to sigh,
          Miew, miew, miew, miew,
          Miew, miew, miew, miew.

  The three little kittens they washed their mittens,
  And hung them up to dry;
          "Oh! mammy dear,
          Look here, look here,
      Our mittens we have wash'd."
  "What! wash'd your mittens,
  You darling kittens!
      But I smell a rat close by!
          Hush! hush!" Miew, miew,
          Miew, miew, miew, miew.


  Old Mother Hubbard
  Went to the cupboard
    To get her poor Dog a bone;
  But when she came there
  The cupboard was bare,
    And so the poor Dog had none.

  She went to the baker's
    To buy him some bread,
  But when she came back
    She thought he was dead.

  She went to the joiner's
    To buy him a coffin,
  But when she came back
    The sly dog was laughing.

  She took a clean dish,
    To get him some tripe,
  But when she came back
    He was smoking his pipe.

  She went to the ale-house,
    To get him some beer,
  But when she came back
    The dog sat in a chair.

  She went to the tavern,
    For white wine and red,
  But when she came back
    He stood on his head.

  She went to the hatter's
    To buy him a hat,
  But when she came back
    He was feeding the cat.

  She went to the barber's
    To buy him a wig,
  But when she came back
    He was dancing a jig.

  She went to the fruiterer's
    To buy him some fruit,
  But when she came back
    He was playing a flute.

  She went to the tailor's,
    To buy him a coat,
  But when she came back
    He was riding a goat.

  She went to the cobbler's,
    To buy him some shoes,
  But when she came back
    He was reading the news.

  She went to the sempstress,
    To buy him some linen,
  But when she came back
    The dog was spinning.

  

  She went to the hosier's,
    To buy him some hose,
  But when she came back
    He was dress'd in his clothes.

  The Dame made a curtsey,
    The Dog made a bow;
  The Dame said "Your servant,"
    The Dog said "Bow wow!"

  This wonderful Dog
    Was Dame Hubbard's delight;
  He could sing, he could dance,
    He could read, he could write.

  She gave him rich dainties
    Whenever he fed,
  And erected a monument
    When he was dead.


    Peter White
    Will ne'er go right.
  Would you know the reason why?
    He follows his nose,
    Wherever he goes,
  And that stands all awry.


  A, B, C, tumble down D,
  The cat's in the cupboard, and can't see me.


  A was an Archer, and shot at a frog,

  B was a Butcher, and had a great dog.

  C was a Captain, all covered with lace,

  D was a Dunce, with a very sad face.

  E was an Esquire, with pride on his brow,

  F was a Farmer, and followed the plough.

  G was a Gamester, who had but ill-luck,

  H was a hunter, and hunted a buck.

  I was an Innkeeper, who lov'd to bouse,

  J was a Joiner, and built up a house.

  K was a King, so mighty and grand,

  L was a Lady, who had a white hand.

  M was a Miser, who hoarded up his gold,

  N was a Nobleman, gallant and bold.

  O was an Oysterman, and went about town,

  P was a Parson, and wore a black gown.

  Q was a Quack, with a wonderful pill,

  R was a Robber, who wanted to kill.

  S was a Sailor, and spent all he got,

  T was a Tinker, and mended a pot.

  U was a Usurer, a miserable elf,

  V was a Vintner, who drank all himself.

  W was a Watchman, and guarded the door,

  X was expensive, and so became poor.

  Y was a Youth, that did not love school,

  Z was a Zan, a poor harmless fool.


  

  Needles and pins, needles and pins,
  When a man marries, his trouble begins.


  It's raining, it's pouring,
  The old man is snoring.


  Doctor Foster went to Gloster,
    In a shower of rain.
  He stepped in a puddle,
  Up to the middle,
    And never went there again.


  Who killed Cock Robin?
    I, said the Sparrow,
    With my bow and arrow,
  I killed Cock Robin.

  Who saw him die?
    I, said the Fly,
    With my little eye,
  I saw him die.

  Who caught his blood?
    I, said the Fish,
    With my little dish,
  I caught his blood.

  

  Who'll make his shroud?
    I, said the Beetle,
    With my thread and needle,
  I'll make his shroud.

  Who'll dig his grave?
    I, said the Owl,
    With my spade and show'l,
  I'll dig his grave.

  Who'll be the Parson?
    I, said the Rook,
    With my little book,
  I'll be the Parson.

  Who'll be the Clerk?
    I, said the Lark,
    If it's not in the dark
  I'll be the Clerk.

  Who'll carry him to the grave?
    I, said the Kite,
    If it's not in the night,
  I'll carry him to the grave.

  Who'll carry the link?
    I, said the Linnet,
    I'll fetch it in a minute,
  I'll carry the link.

  Who'll be chief mourner?
    I, said the Dove,
    For I mourn for my love,
  I'll be chief mourner.

  Who'll sing a psalm?
    I, said the Trush,
    As she sat in a bush,
  I'll sing a psalm.

  Who'll toll the bell?
    I, said the Bull,
    Because I can pull;
  So, Cock Robin, farewell.

  _All the birds of the air
    Fell a-sighing and sobbin',
  When they heard the bell toll
    For Poor Cock Robin._


  Upon my word and honor,
  As I went to Bonner
    I met a pig,
    Without a wig,
  Upon my word and honor.


  Little King Boggen he built a fine hall,
  Pie-crust and pastry-crust, that was the wall,
  The windows were made of black puddings and white,
  And slated with pancakes,--you ne'er saw the like.


  To market, to market, a gallop, a trot,
  To buy some meat to put in the pot;
  Five cents a quarter, ten cents a side,
  If it hadn't been killed, it must have died.


  A diller, a dollar,
  A ten o'clock scholar,
  What makes you come so soon?
  You used to come at ten o'clock,
  But now you come at noon.


  Yankee Doodle went to town
    Upon a little pony;
  He stuck a feather in his hat,
    And called it Macaroni.


  The lion and the unicorn
    Were fighting for the crown;
  The lion beat the unicorn
    All round about the town.
  Some gave them white bread,
    And some gave them brown;
  Some gave them plum-cake,
    And sent them out of town.


  Old King Cole was a merry old soul,
    And a merry old soul was he;
  And he called for his pipe,
    And he called for his bowl,
  And he called for his fiddlers three.
    And every fiddler, he had a fine fiddle,
  And a very fine fiddle had he;
    "Tweedle dee, tweedle dee," said the fiddlers:
  "Oh, there's none so rare as can compare
    With King Cole and his fiddlers three."


  Rowley Powley, pudding and pie,
  Kissed the girls and made them cry;
  When the girls come out to play
  Rowley Powley runs away.


  

  


The Little Red Hen



A Little Red Hen lived in a barnyard. She spent almost all of her time
walking about the barnyard in her picketty-pecketty fashion,
scratching everywhere for worms.





She dearly loved fat, delicious worms and felt they were absolutely
necessary to the health of her children. As often as she found a worm
she would call "Chuck-chuck-chuck!" to her chickies.





When they were gathered about her, she would distribute choice morsels
of her tid-bit. A busy little body was she!



A cat usually napped lazily in the barn door, not even bothering
herself to scare the rat who ran here and there as he pleased. And as
for the pig who lived in the sty--he did not care what happened so
long as he could eat and grow fat.



One day the Little Red Hen found a Seed. It was a Wheat Seed, but the
Little Red Hen was so accustomed to bugs and worms that she supposed
this to be some new and perhaps very delicious kind of meat. She bit
it gently and found that it resembled a worm in no way whatsoever as
to taste although because it was long and slender, a Little Red Hen
might easily be fooled by its appearance.







Carrying it about, she made many inquiries as to what it might be. She
found it was a Wheat Seed and that, if planted, it would grow up and
when ripe it could be made into flour and then into bread.



When she discovered that, she knew it ought to be planted. She was so
busy hunting food for herself and her family that, naturally, she
thought she ought not to take time to plant it.





So she thought of the Pig--upon whom time must hang heavily and of the
Cat who had nothing to do, and of the great fat Rat with his idle
hours, and she called loudly:



"Who will plant the Seed?"



But the Pig said, "Not I," and the Cat said, "Not I," and the Rat
said, "Not I."



"Well, then," said the Little Red Hen, "I will."

And she did.





Then she went on with her daily duties through the long summer days,
scratching for worms and feeding her chicks, while the Pig grew fat,
and the Cat grew fat, and the Rat grew fat, and the Wheat grew tall
and ready for harvest.





So one day the Little Red Hen chanced to notice how large the Wheat
was and that the grain was ripe, so she ran about calling briskly:
"Who will cut the Wheat?"

The Pig said, "Not I," the Cat said, "Not I," and the Rat said, "Not
I."



"Well, then," said the Little Red Hen, "I will."

And she did.



She got the sickle from among the farmer's tools in the barn and
proceeded to cut off all of the big plant of Wheat.

On the ground lay the nicely cut Wheat, ready to be gathered and
threshed, but the newest and yellowest and downiest of Mrs. Hen's
chicks set up a "peep-peep-peeping" in their most vigorous fashion,
proclaiming to the world at large, but most particularly to their
mother, that she was neglecting them.





Poor Little Red Hen! She felt quite bewildered and hardly knew where
to turn.

Her attention was sorely divided between her duty to her children and
her duty to the Wheat, for which she felt responsible.

So, again, in a very hopeful tone, she called out, "Who will thresh
the Wheat?"

But the Pig, with a grunt, said, "Not I,"
and the Cat, with a meow, said, "Not I," and
the Rat, with a squeak, said, "Not I."

So the Little Red Hen, looking, it must be admitted, rather
discouraged, said, "Well, I will, then."

And she did.

Of course, she had to feed her babies first, though, and when she had
gotten them all to sleep for their afternoon nap, she went out and
threshed the Wheat. Then she called out: "Who will carry the Wheat to
the mill to be ground?"



Turning their backs with snippy glee,
that Pig said, "Not I,"









and that Cat said, "Not I," and that Rat said, "Not I."



So the good Little Red Hen could do nothing but say, "I will then."
And she did.

Carrying the sack of Wheat, she trudged off to the distant mill. There
she ordered the Wheat ground into beautiful white flour. When the
miller brought her the flour she walked slowly back all the way to her
own barnyard in her own picketty-pecketty fashion.







She even managed, in spite of her load, to catch a nice juicy worm now
and then and had one left for the babies when she reached them. Those
cunning little fluff-balls were _so_ glad to see their mother. For the
first time, they really appreciated her.





After this really strenuous day Mrs. Hen retired to her slumbers
earlier than usual--indeed, before the colors came into the sky to
herald the setting of the sun, her usual bedtime hour.

She would have liked to sleep late in the morning, but her chicks,
joining in the morning chorus of the hen yard, drove away all hopes of
such a luxury.

Even as she sleepily half opened one eye, the thought came to her that
to-day that Wheat must, somehow, be made into bread.



She was not in the habit of making bread, although, of course, anyone
can make it if he or she follows the recipe with care, and she knew
perfectly well that she could do it if necessary.

So after her children were fed and made sweet and fresh for the day,
she hunted up the Pig, the Cat and the Rat.



Still confident that they would surely help her some day she sang out,
"Who will make the bread?"



Alas for the Little Red Hen! Once more her hopes were dashed! For the
Pig said, "Not I,"



the Cat said, "Not I," and the Rat said, "Not I."





So the Little Red Hen said once more, "I will then," and she did.

Feeling that she might have known all the time that she would have to
do it all herself, she went and put on a fresh apron and spotless
cook's cap. First of all she set the dough, as was proper. When it was
time she brought out the moulding board and the baking tins, moulded
the bread, divided it into loaves, and put them into the oven to bake.
All the while the Cat sat lazily by, giggling and chuckling.



And close at hand the vain Rat powdered his nose and admired himself
in a mirror.



In the distance could be heard the long-drawn snores of the dozing
Pig.



At last the great moment arrived. A delicious odor was wafted upon the
autumn breeze. Everywhere the barnyard citizens sniffed the air with
delight.





The Red Hen ambled in her picketty-pecketty way toward the source of
all this excitement.



Although she appeared to be perfectly calm, in reality she could only
with difficulty restrain an impulse to dance and sing, for had she not
done all the work on this wonderful bread?





Small wonder that she was the most excited person in the barnyard!

She did not know whether the bread would be fit to eat, but--joy of
joys!--when the lovely brown loaves came out of the oven, they were
done to perfection.



Then, probably because she had acquired the habit, the Red Hen called:
"Who will eat the Bread?"



All the animals in the barnyard were watching hungrily and smacking
their lips in anticipation, and the Pig said, "I will," the Cat said,
"I will," the Rat said, "I will."

But the Little Red Hen said,



"No, you won't. I will."

And she did.





LITTLE BLACK
SAMBO




Once upon a time there was a little black boy, and his name was Little
Black Sambo.



And his mother was called Black Mumbo.



And his father was called Black Jumbo.



And Black Mumbo made him a beautiful little Red Coat, and a pair of
beautiful little Blue Trousers.



And Black Jumbo went to the Bazaar and bought him a beautiful Green
Umbrella and a lovely little Pair of Purple Shoes with Crimson Soles
and Crimson Linings.

And then wasn't Little Black Sambo grand?



So he put on all his Fine Clothes and went out for a walk in the
Jungle.



And by and by he met a Tiger. And the Tiger said to him, "Little
Black Sambo, I'm going to eat you up!"



And Little Black Sambo said, "Oh! Please, Mr. Tiger, don't eat me up,
and I'll give you my beautiful little Red Coat."



So the Tiger said, "Very well, I won't eat you this time, but you must
give me your beautiful little Red Coat." So the Tiger got poor Little
Black Sambo's beautiful little Red Coat, and went away saying,

"Now I'm the grandest Tiger in the Jungle."



And Little Black Sambo went on, and by and by he met another Tiger,
and it said to him, "Little Black Sambo, I'm going to eat you up!"



And Little Black Sambo said, "Oh! Please, Mr. Tiger, don't eat me up,
and I'll give you my beautiful little Blue Trousers."



So the Tiger said, "Very well, I won't eat you this time, but you must
give me your beautiful little Blue Trousers." So the Tiger got poor
Little Black Sambo's beautiful little Blue Trousers, and went away
saying, "Now I'm the grandest Tiger in the Jungle."



And Little Black Sambo went on and by and by he met another Tiger, and
it said to him, "Little Black Sambo, I'm going to eat you up!" And
Little Black Sambo said, "Oh! Please, Mr. Tiger, don't eat me up, and
I'll give you my beautiful little Purple Shoes with Crimson Soles and
Crimson Linings."





But the Tiger said, "What use would your shoes be to me? I've got four
feet and you've got only two."



"You haven't got enough shoes for me." But Little Black Sambo said,
"You could wear them on your ears."

"So I could," said the Tiger, "that's a very good idea. Give them to
me, and I won't eat you this time."

So the Tiger got poor Little Black Sambo's beautiful little Purple
Shoes with Crimson Soles and Crimson Linings, and went away saying,
"Now I'm the grandest Tiger in the Jungle."



And by and by Little Black Sambo met another Tiger, and it said to
him, "Little Black Sambo, I'm going to eat you up!"



And Little Black Sambo said, "Oh! Please, Mr. Tiger, don't eat me up
and I'll give you my beautiful Green Umbrella." But the Tiger said,
"How can I carry an umbrella when I need all my paws for walking
with?"



"You could tie a knot on your tail, and carry it that way," said
Little Black Sambo.



"So I could," said the Tiger. "Give it to me and I won't eat you this
time."



So he got poor Little Black Sambo's beautiful Green Umbrella, and went
away saying, "Now _I_'m the grandest Tiger in the Jungle."

And poor Little Black Sambo went away crying, because the cruel Tigers
had taken all his fine clothes.



Presently he heard a horrible noise that sounded like
"Gr-r-r-r-rrrrrrr," and it got louder and louder.

"Oh dear!" said Little Black Sambo, "There are all the Tigers coming
back to eat me up! What shall I do?"

So he ran quickly to a palm-tree,



And peeped round it to see what the matter was.

And there he saw all the Tigers fighting and disputing which of them
was the grandest.

And at last they all got so angry that they jumped up and took off all
the fine clothes and began to tear each other with their claws and
bite each other with their great big white teeth.



And they came, rolling and tumbling, right to the foot of the very
tree where Little Black Sambo was hiding, but he jumped quickly in
behind the umbrella. And the Tigers all caught hold of each others'
tails.



As they wrangled and scrambled, and so they found themselves in a ring
around the tree.

Then, when the Tigers were very wee and very far away, Little Black
Sambo jumped up and called out,

"Oh! Tigers! why have you taken off all your nice clothes? Don't you
want them any more?"



But the Tigers only answered "Gr-r-r-rrrrr!"



Then Little Black Sambo said, "If you want them, say so, or I'll take
them away." But the Tigers would not let go of each others' tails, and
so they could only say "Gr-r-r-rrrrrr!"



And the Tigers were very, very angry, but still they would not let go
of each others' tails. And they were so angry that they ran round the
tree, trying to eat each other up, and they ran faster and faster till
they were whirling round so fast that you couldn't see their legs at
all.



And they still ran faster and faster and faster, till they all just
melted away, and then there was nothing left but a great big pool of
melted butter (or "ghi" as it is called in India) round the foot of
the tree.

Now Black Jumbo was just coming home from his work, with a great big
brass pot in his arms, and when he saw what was left of all the
Tigers, he said,

"Oh! what lovely melted butter! I'll take that home to Black Mumbo for
her to cook with."

So he put it all into the great big brass pot, and took it home to
Black Mumbo to cook with.

When Black Mumbo saw the melted butter, wasn't she pleased!

"Now," said she, "we'll all have pancakes for supper!"



So she got flour and eggs and milk and sugar and butter, and she made
a huge big plate of most lovely pancakes. And she fried them in the
melted butter which the Tigers had made, and they were just as yellow
and brown as little Tigers.

And then they all sat down to supper. And Black Mumbo ate Twenty-seven
pancakes, and Black Jumbo ate Fifty-five, but Little Black Sambo ate a
Hundred and Sixty-nine, because he was so hungry.






    ’Twas the Night before Christmas




’Twas the night before Christmas, when all through the house
Not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse;
The stockings were hung by the chimney with care
In hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there;



The children were nestled all snug in their beds,
While visions of sugar-plums danced in their heads;
And mamma in her kerchief, and I in my cap,
Had just settled our brains for a long winter’s nap,



When out on the lawn there arose such a clatter,
I sprang from the bed to see what was the matter.
Away to the window I flew like a flash,
Tore open the shutters and threw up the sash.



The moon on the breast of the new-fallen snow
Gave the lustre of mid-day to objects below,
When, what to my wondering eyes should appear,
But a miniature sleigh, and eight tiny reindeer,



With a little old driver, so lively and quick,
I knew in a moment it must be St. Nick.
More rapid than eagles his coursers they came,
And he whistled, and shouted, and called them by name:

“Now, _Dasher!_ now, _Dancer!_ now, _Prancer_ and _Vixen!_
On, _Comet!_ on, _Cupid!_ on, _Donder_ and _Blitzen!_
To the top of the porch! to the top of the wall!
Now dash away! dash away! dash away all!”





As dry leaves that before the wild hurricane fly,
When they meet with an obstacle, mount to the sky;
So up to the house-top the coursers they flew,
With the sleigh full of Toys, and St. Nicholas too.

And then, in a twinkling, I heard on the roof
The prancing and pawing of each little hoof.
As I drew in my head, and was turning around,
Down the chimney St. Nicholas came with a bound.

He was dressed all in fur, from his head to his foot,
And his clothes were all tarnished with ashes and soot;
A bundle of Toys he had flung on his back,
And he looked like a peddler just opening his pack.



His eyes--how they twinkled! his dimples how merry!
His cheeks were like roses, his nose like a cherry!
His droll little mouth was drawn up like a bow,
And the beard of his chin was as white as the snow;



The stump of a pipe he held tight in his teeth,
And the smoke it encircled his head like a wreath;
He had a broad face and a little round belly,
That shook when he laughed, like a bowlful of jelly.



He was chubby and plump, a right jolly old elf,
And I laughed when I saw him, in spite of myself;
A wink of his eye and a twist of his head,
Soon gave me to know I had nothing to dread;



He spoke not a word, but went straight to his work,
And filled all the stockings; then turned with a jerk,
And laying his finger aside of his nose,
And giving a nod, up the chimney he rose;



He sprang to his sleigh, to his team gave a whistle,
And away they all flew like the down of a thistle.
But I heard him exclaim, ere he drove out of sight,
_“Happy Christmas to all, and to all a good-night.”_






LITTLE BO-PEEP

Little Bo-Peep has lost her sheep,
  And can't tell where to find them;
Leave them alone, and they'll come home,
  And bring their tails behind them.

Little Bo-Peep fell fast asleep,
  And dreamt she heard them bleating;
But when she awoke, she found it a joke,
  For still they all were fleeting.

Then up she took her little crook,
  Determined for to find them;
She found them indeed, but it made her heart bleed,
  For they'd left all their tails behind 'em!

It happened one day, as Bo-peep did stray
  Unto a meadow hard by--
There she espied their tails, side by side,
  All hung on a tree to dry.

She heaved a sigh and wiped her eye,
  And over the hillocks she raced;
And tried what she could, as a shepherdess should,
  That each tail should be properly placed.


LITTLE BOY BLUE

Little Boy Blue, come, blow your horn!
The sheep's in the meadow, the cow's in the corn.
Where's the little boy that looks after the sheep?
Under the haystack, fast asleep!


RAIN

Rain, rain, go away,
Come again another day;
Little Johnny wants to play.


THE CLOCK

There's a neat little clock,--
  In the schoolroom it stands,--
And it points to the time
  With its two little hands.

And may we, like the clock,
  Keep a face clean and bright,
With hands ever ready
  To do what is right.


WINTER

Cold and raw the north wind doth blow,
Bleak in the morning early;
All the hills are covered with snow,
And winter's now come fairly.


FINGERS AND TOES

Every lady in this land
Has twenty nails, upon each hand
Five, and twenty on hands and feet:
All this is true, without deceit.


A SEASONABLE SONG

Piping hot, smoking hot.
    What I've got
    You have not.
Hot gray pease, hot, hot, hot;
Hot gray pease, hot.


DAME TROT AND HER CAT

Dame Trot and her cat
  Led a peaceable life,
When they were not troubled
  With other folks' strife.

When Dame had her dinner
  Pussy would wait,
And was sure to receive
  A nice piece from her plate.


THREE CHILDREN ON THE ICE

Three children sliding on the ice
    Upon a summer's day,
As it fell out, they all fell in,
    The rest they ran away.

Oh, had these children been at school,
    Or sliding on dry ground,
Ten thousand pounds to one penny
    They had not then been drowned.

Ye parents who have children dear,
    And ye, too, who have none,
If you would keep them safe abroad
    Pray keep them safe at home.


CROSS PATCH

Cross patch, draw the latch,
  Sit by the fire and spin;
Take a cup and drink it up,
  Then call your neighbors in.


THE OLD WOMAN UNDER A HILL

There was an old woman
  Lived under a hill;
And if she's not gone,
  She lives there still.


TWEEDLE-DUM AND TWEEDLE-DEE

Tweedle-dum and Tweedle-dee
    Resolved to have a battle,
For Tweedle-dum said Tweedle-dee
    Had spoiled his nice new rattle.

Just then flew by a monstrous crow,
    As big as a tar barrel,
Which frightened both the heroes so,
    They quite forgot their quarrel.


OH, DEAR!

Dear, dear! what can the matter be?
Two old women got up in an apple-tree;
One came down, and the other stayed till Saturday.


OLD MOTHER GOOSE

Old Mother Goose, when
  She wanted to wander,
Would ride through the air
  On a very fine gander.


LITTLE JUMPING JOAN

    Here am I, little jumping Joan,
When nobody's with me
    I'm always alone.


PAT-A-CAKE

Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake,
  Baker's man!
So I do, master,
  As fast as I can.

Pat it, and prick it,
  And mark it with T,
Put it in the oven
  For Tommy and me.


MONEY AND THE MARE

"Lend me thy mare to ride a mile."
"She is lamed, leaping over a stile."

"Alack! and I must keep the fair!
I'll give thee money for thy mare."

"Oh, oh! say you so?
Money will make the mare to go!"


ROBIN REDBREAST

Little Robin Redbreast sat upon a tree,
Up went Pussy-Cat, down went he,
Down came Pussy-Cat, away Robin ran,
Says little Robin Redbreast: "Catch me if you can!"

Little Robin Redbreast jumped upon a spade,
Pussy-Cat jumped after him, and then he was afraid.
Little Robin chirped and sang, and what did Pussy say?
Pussy-Cat said: "Mew, mew, mew," and Robin flew away.


A MELANCHOLY SONG

Trip upon trenchers,
And dance upon dishes,
My mother sent me for some barm, some barm;
She bid me go lightly,
And come again quickly,
For fear the young men should do me some harm.
Yet didn't you see, yet didn't you see,
What naughty tricks they put upon me?
They broke my pitcher
And spilt the water,
And huffed my mother,
And chid her daughter,
And kissed my sister instead of me.


JACK

Jack be nimble, Jack be quick,
Jack jump over the candlestick.


GOING TO ST. IVES

As I was going to St. Ives
I met a man with seven wives.
Every wife had seven sacks,
Every sack had seven cats,
Every cat had seven kits.
Kits, cats, sacks, and wives,
How many were going to St. Ives?


THIRTY DAYS HATH SEPTEMBER

Thirty days hath September,
April, June, and November;
February has twenty-eight alone,
All the rest have thirty-one,
Excepting leap-year, that's the time
When February's days are twenty-nine.


BABY DOLLY

Hush, baby, my dolly, I pray you don't cry,
And I'll give you some bread, and some milk by-and-by;
Or perhaps you like custard, or, maybe, a tart,
Then to either you're welcome, with all my heart.


BEES

A swarm of bees in May
Is worth a load of hay;
A swarm of bees in June
Is worth a silver spoon;
A swarm of bees in July
Is not worth a fly.


COME OUT TO PLAY

Girls and boys, come out to play,
The moon doth shine as bright as day;
Leave your supper, and leave your sleep,
And come with your playfellows into the street.
Come with a whoop, come with a call,
Come with a good will or not at all.
Up the ladder and down the wall,
A half-penny roll will serve us all.
You find milk, and I'll find flour,
And we'll have a pudding in half an hour.


IF WISHES WERE HORSES

If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
If turnips were watches, I would wear one by my side.
    And if "ifs" and "ands"
    Were pots and pans,
There'd be no work for tinkers!


TO MARKET

To market, to market, to buy a fat pig.
Home again, home again, jiggety jig.
To market, to market, to buy a fat hog,
Home again, home again, jiggety jog.
To market, to market, to buy a plum bun,
Home again, home again, market is done.


OLD CHAIRS TO MEND

If I'd as much money as I could spend,
I never would cry old chairs to mend;
Old chairs to mend, old chairs to mend;
I never would cry old chairs to mend.

If I'd as much money as I could tell,
I never would cry old clothes to sell;
Old clothes to sell, old clothes to sell;
I never would cry old clothes to sell.


ROBIN AND RICHARD

Robin and Richard were two pretty men,
They lay in bed till the clock struck ten;
Then up starts Robin and looks at the sky,
"Oh, brother Richard, the sun's very high!
You go before, with the bottle and bag,
And I will come after on little Jack Nag."


A MAN AND A MAID

    There was a little man,
    Who wooed a little maid,
And he said, "Little maid, will you wed, wed, wed?
    I have little more to say,
    So will you, yea or nay,
For least said is soonest mended-ded, ded, ded."

    The little maid replied,
    "Should I be your little bride,
Pray what must we have for to eat, eat, eat?
    Will the flame that you're so rich in
    Light a fire in the kitchen?
Or the little god of love turn the spit, spit, spit?"


HERE GOES MY LORD

      Here goes my lord
A trot, a trot, a trot, a trot,
      Here goes my lady
A canter, a canter, a canter, a canter!

      Here goes my young master
Jockey-hitch, jockey-hitch, jockey-hitch, jockey-hitch!
      Here goes my young miss
An amble, an amble, an amble, an amble!

The footman lags behind to tipple ale and wine,
And goes gallop, a gallop, a gallop, to make up his time.


THE CLEVER HEN

I had a little hen, the prettiest ever seen,
She washed me the dishes and kept the house clean;
She went to the mill to fetch me some flour,
She brought it home in less than an hour;
She baked me my bread, she brewed me my ale,
She sat by the fire and told many a fine tale.


TWO BIRDS

There were two birds sat on a stone,
    Fa, la, la, la, lal, de;
One flew away, and then there was one,
    Fa, la, la, la, lal, de;
The other bird flew after,
And then there was none,
    Fa, la, la, la, lal, de;
And so the stone
Was left alone,
    Fa, la, la, la, lal, de.


LEG OVER LEG

Leg over leg,
As the dog went to Dover;
When he came to a stile,
Jump, he went over.


LUCY LOCKET

Lucy Locket lost her pocket,
Kitty Fisher found it;
Nothing in it, nothing in it,
But the binding round it.


WHEN JENNY WREN WAS YOUNG

'Twas once upon a time, when Jenny Wren was young,
So daintily she danced and so prettily she sung,
Robin Redbreast lost his heart, for he was a gallant bird.
So he doffed his hat to Jenny Wren, requesting to be heard.

"Oh, dearest Jenny Wren, if you will but be mine,
You shall feed on cherry pie and drink new currant wine,
I'll dress you like a goldfinch or any peacock gay,
So, dearest Jen, if you'll be mine, let us appoint the day."

Jenny blushed behind her fan and thus declared her mind:
"Since, dearest Bob, I love you well, I'll take your offer kind.
Cherry pie is very nice and so is currant wine,
But I must wear my plain brown gown and never go too fine."


BARBER

Barber, barber, shave a pig.
How many hairs will make a wig?
Four and twenty; that's enough.
Give the barber a pinch of snuff.


THE FLYING PIG

Dickory, dickory, dare,
The pig flew up in the air;
The man in brown soon brought
      him down,
          Dickory,
            dickory,
              dare.


SOLOMON GRUNDY

Solomon Grundy,
Born on a Monday,
Christened on Tuesday,
Married on Wednesday,
Took ill on Thursday,
Worse on Friday,
Died on Saturday,
Buried on Sunday.
This is the end
Of Solomon Grundy.


HUSH-A-BYE

Hush-a-bye, baby, on the tree top!
When the wind blows the cradle will rock;
When the bough breaks the cradle will fall;
Down will come baby, bough, cradle and all.


BURNIE BEE

Burnie bee, burnie bee,
Tell me when your wedding be?
If it be to-morrow day,
Take your wings and fly away.


THREE WISE MEN OF GOTHAM

Three wise men of Gotham
Went to sea in a bowl;
If the bowl had been stronger
My song had been longer.


THE HUNTER OF REIGATE

A man went a-hunting at Reigate,
And wished to leap over a high gate.
  Says the owner, "Go round,
  With your gun and your hound,
For you never shall leap over my gate."


LITTLE POLLY FLINDERS

Little Polly Flinders
Sat among the cinders
    Warming her pretty little toes;
Her mother came and caught her,
Whipped her little daughter
    For spoiling her nice new clothes.


RIDE AWAY, RIDE AWAY

Ride away, ride away,
  Johnny shall ride,
And he shall have pussy-cat
  Tied to one side;
And he shall have little dog
  Tied to the other,
And Johnny shall ride
  To see his grandmother.


PIPPEN HILL

As I was going up Pippen Hill,
    Pippen Hill was dirty;
There I met a pretty Miss,
    And she dropped me a curtsy.

Little Miss, pretty Miss,
    Blessings light upon you;
If I had half-a-crown a day,
    I'd spend it all upon you.


PUSSY-CAT AND QUEEN

"Pussy-cat, pussy-cat,
    Where have you been?"
"I've been to London
    To look at the Queen."

"Pussy-cat, pussy-cat,
    What did you there?"
"I frightened a little mouse
    Under the chair."


THE WINDS

Mister East gave a feast;
Mister North laid the cloth;
Mister West did his best;
Mister South burnt his mouth
Eating cold potato.


CLAP HANDIES

    Clap, clap handies,
Mammie's wee, wee ain;
    Clap, clap handies,
Daddie's comin' hame,
Hame till his bonny wee bit laddie;
    Clap, clap handies,
    My wee, wee ain.


CHRISTMAS

Christmas comes but once a year,
And when it comes it brings good cheer.


ELIZABETH

Elizabeth, Elspeth, Betsy, and Bess,
They all went together to seek a bird's nest;
They found a bird's nest with five eggs in,
They all took one, and left four in.


JUST LIKE ME

"I went up one pair of stairs."
    "Just like me."

"I went up two pairs of stairs."
    "Just like me."

"I went into a room."
    "Just like me."

"I looked out of a window."
    "Just like me."

"And there I saw a monkey."
    "Just like me."


PLAY DAYS

How many days has my baby to play?
    Saturday, Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
    Saturday, Sunday, Monday.


HEIGH-HO, THE CARRION CROW

A carrion crow sat on an oak,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do,
Watching a tailor shape his cloak;
    Sing heigh-ho, the carrion crow,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!

Wife, bring me my old bent bow,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do,
That I may shoot yon carrion crow;
    Sing heigh-ho, the carrion crow,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!

The tailor he shot, and missed his mark,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!
And shot his own sow quite through the heart;
    Sing heigh-ho, the carrion crow,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!

Wife! bring brandy in a spoon,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!
For our old sow is in a swoon;
    Sing heigh-ho, the carrion crow,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!


ABC

Great A, little a,
  Bouncing B!
The cat's in the cupboard,
  And can't see me.


A NEEDLE AND THREAD

Old Mother Twitchett had but one eye,
And a long tail which she let fly;
And every time she went through a gap,
A bit of her tail she left in a trap.


BANBURY CROSS

Ride a cock-horse to Banbury Cross,
To see an old lady upon a white horse.
Rings on her fingers, and bells on her toes,
She shall have music wherever she goes.


THE MAN IN OUR TOWN

There was a man in our town,
    And he was wondrous wise,
He jumped into a bramble bush,
    And scratched out both his eyes;
But when he saw his eyes were out,
    With all his might and main,
He jumped into another bush,
    And scratched 'em in again.


GEORGY PORGY

Georgy Porgy, pudding and pie,
Kissed the girls and made them cry.
When the boys came out to play,
Georgy Porgy ran away.


FOR EVERY EVIL

For every evil under the sun
There is a remedy or there is none.
If there be one, seek till you find it;
If there be none, never mind it.


CUSHY COW

Cushy cow, bonny, let down thy milk,
And I will give thee a gown of silk;
A gown of silk and a silver tee,
If thou wilt let down thy milk to me.


WEE WILLIE WINKIE

Wee Willie Winkie runs through the town,
Upstairs and downstairs, in his nightgown;
Rapping at the window, crying through the lock,
"Are the children in their beds? Now it's eight o'clock."


ABOUT THE BUSH

About the bush, Willie,
    About the beehive,
About the bush, Willie,
    I'll meet thee alive.


SEE-SAW

See-saw, Margery Daw,
Sold her bed and lay upon straw.


ROBIN-A-BOBBIN

Robin-a-Bobbin
Bent his bow,
Shot at a pigeon,
And killed a crow.


JOHN SMITH

Is John Smith within?
Yes, that he is.
Can he set a shoe?
Ay, marry, two.
Here a nail, there a nail,
Tick, tack, too.


SIMPLE SIMON

Simple Simon met a pieman,
    Going to the fair;
Says Simple Simon to the pieman,
    "Let me taste your ware."

Says the pieman to Simple Simon,
    "Show me first your penny,"
Says Simple Simon to the pieman,
    "Indeed, I have not any."

Simple Simon went a-fishing
    For to catch a whale;
All the water he could find
    Was in his mother's pail!

Simple Simon went to look
    If plums grew on a thistle;
He pricked his fingers very much,
    Which made poor Simon whistle.

He went to catch a dicky bird,
    And thought he could not fail,
Because he had a little salt,
    To put upon its tail.

He went for water with a sieve,
    But soon it ran all through;
And now poor Simple Simon
    Bids you all adieu.


THREE BLIND MICE

Three blind mice! See how they run!
They all ran after the farmer's wife,
Who cut off their tails with a carving knife.
Did you ever see such a thing in your life
As three blind mice?


FIVE TOES

This little pig went to market;
This little pig stayed at home;
This little pig had roast beef;
This little pig had none;
This little pig said, "Wee, wee!
I can't find my way home."


A LITTLE MAN

There was a little man, and he had a little gun,
  And his bullets were made of lead, lead, lead;
He went to the brook, and saw a little duck,
  And shot it right through the head, head, head.

He carried it home to his old wife Joan,
  And bade her a fire to make, make, make.
To roast the little duck he had shot in the brook,
  And he'd go and fetch the drake, drake, drake.

The drake was a-swimming with his curly tail;
  The little man made it his mark, mark, mark.
He let off his gun, but he fired too soon,
  And the drake flew away with a quack, quack, quack.


DOCTOR FOSTER

Doctor Foster went to Glo'ster,
  In a shower of rain;
He stepped in a puddle, up to his middle,
  And never went there again.


DIDDLE DIDDLE DUMPLING

Diddle diddle dumpling, my son John
Went to bed with his breeches on,
One stocking off, and one stocking on;
Diddle diddle dumpling, my son John.


JERRY HALL

Jerry Hall, he was so small,
A rat could eat him, hat and all.


LENGTHENING DAYS

As the days grow longer
The storms grow stronger.


THE BLACK HEN

Hickety, pickety, my black hen,
She lays eggs for gentlemen;
Gentlemen come every day
To see what my black hen doth lay.


THE MIST

A hill full, a hole full,
Yet you cannot catch a bowl full.


A CANDLE

Little Nanny Etticoat
In a white petticoat,
And a red nose;
The longer she stands
The shorter she grows.


MISS MUFFET

    Little Miss Muffet
    Sat on a tuffet,
Eating of curds and whey;
    There came a big spider,
    And sat down beside her,
And frightened Miss Muffet away.


CURLY-LOCKS

Curly-locks, Curly-locks, wilt thou be mine?
Thou shalt not wash the dishes, nor yet feed the swine;
But sit on a cushion, and sew a fine seam
And feed upon strawberries, sugar, and cream.


HUMPTY DUMPTY

Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall,
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall;
All the King's horses, and all the King's men
Cannot put Humpty Dumpty together again.


ONE, TWO, THREE

One, two, three, four, five,
Once I caught a fish alive.
Six, seven, eight, nine, ten,
But I let it go again.
Why did you let it go?
Because it bit my finger so.
Which finger did it bite?
The little one upon the right.


THE DOVE AND THE WREN

The dove says coo, coo, what shall I do?
I can scarce maintain two.
Pooh, pooh! says the wren, I've got ten,
And keep them all like gentlemen.


MASTER I HAVE

Master I have, and I am his man,
    Gallop a dreary dun;
Master I have, and I am his man,
    And I'll get a wife as fast as I can;
With a heighty gaily gamberally,
    Higgledy piggledy, niggledy, niggledy,
    Gallop a dreary dun.


PINS

See a pin and pick it up,
All the day you'll have good luck.
See a pin and let it lay,
Bad luck you'll have all the day.


SHALL WE GO A-SHEARING?

"Old woman, old woman, shall we go a-shearing?"
"Speak a little louder, sir, I am very thick of hearing."
"Old woman, old woman, shall I kiss you dearly?"
"Thank you, kind sir, I hear you very clearly."


GOOSEY, GOOSEY, GANDER

Goosey, goosey, gander,
  Whither dost thou wander?
Upstairs and downstairs
  And in my lady's chamber.

There I met an old man
  Who wouldn't say his prayers;
I took him by the left leg,
  And threw him down the stairs.


OLD MOTHER HUBBARD

Old Mother Hubbard
Went to the cupboard,
  To give her poor dog a bone;
But when she got there
The cupboard was bare,
  And so the poor dog had none.

She went to the baker's
  To buy him some bread;
When she came back
  The dog was dead.

She went to the undertaker's
  To buy him a coffin;
When she got back
  The dog was laughing.

She took a clean dish
  To get him some tripe;
When she came back
  He was smoking a pipe.

She went to the alehouse
  To get him some beer;
When she came back
  The dog sat in a chair.

She went to the tavern
  For white wine and red;
When she came back
  The dog stood on his head.

She went to the hatter's
  To buy him a hat;
When she came back
  He was feeding the cat.

She went to the barber's
  To buy him a wig;
When she came back
  He was dancing a jig.

She went to the fruiterer's
  To buy him some fruit;
When she came back
  He was playing the flute.

She went to the tailor's
  To buy him a coat;
When she came back
  He was riding a goat.

She went to the cobbler's
  To buy him some shoes;
When she came back
  He was reading the news.

She went to the sempster's
  To buy him some linen;
When she came back
  The dog was a-spinning.

She went to the hosier's
  To buy him some hose;
When she came back
  He was dressed in his clothes.

The dame made a curtsy,
  The dog made a bow;
The dame said, "Your servant,"
  The dog said, "Bow-wow."


THE COCK AND THE HEN

"Cock, cock, cock, cock,
I've laid an egg,
Am I to gang ba--are-foot?"

"Hen, hen, hen, hen,
I've been up and down
To every shop in town,
And cannot find a shoe
To fit your foot,
If I'd crow my hea--art out."


BLUE BELL BOY

I had a little boy,
  And called him Blue Bell;
Gave him a little work,--
  He did it very well.

I bade him go upstairs
  To bring me a gold pin;
In coal scuttle fell he,
  Up to his little chin.

He went to the garden
  To pick a little sage;
He tumbled on his nose,
  And fell into a rage.

He went to the cellar
  To draw a little beer;
And quickly did return
  To say there was none there.


WHY MAY NOT I LOVE JOHNNY?

Johnny shall have a new bonnet,
  And Johnny shall go to the fair,
And Johnny shall have a blue ribbon
  To tie up his bonny brown hair.

And why may not I love Johnny?
  And why may not Johnny love me?
And why may not I love Johnny
  As well as another body?

And here's a leg for a stocking,
  And here's a foot for a shoe,
And he has a kiss for his daddy,
  And two for his mammy, I trow.

And why may not I love Johnny?
  And why may not Johnny love me?
And why may not I love Johnny
  As well as another body?


JACK JELF

    Little Jack Jelf
    Was put on the shelf
Because he could not spell "pie";
    When his aunt, Mrs. Grace,
    Saw his sorrowful face,
She could not help saying, "Oh, fie!"

    And since Master Jelf
    Was put on the shelf
Because he could not spell "pie,"
    Let him stand there so grim,
    And no more about him,
For I wish him a very good-bye!


JACK SPRAT

    Jack Sprat
    Could eat no fat,
His wife could eat no lean;
    And so,
    Betwixt them both,
They licked the platter clean.


HUSH-A-BYE

  Hush-a-bye, baby,
    Daddy is near;
Mamma is a lady,
  And that's very clear.


DAFFODILS

Daffy-down-dilly has come to town
In a yellow petticoat and a green gown.


THE GIRL IN THE LANE

The girl in the lane, that couldn't speak plain,
  Cried, "Gobble, gobble, gobble":
The man on the hill that couldn't stand still,
  Went hobble hobble, hobble.


HUSH-A-BYE

Hush-a-bye, baby, lie still with thy daddy,
  Thy mammy has gone to the mill,
To get some meal to bake a cake,
  So pray, my dear baby, lie still.


NANCY DAWSON

Nancy Dawson was so fine
She wouldn't get up to serve the swine;
She lies in bed till eight or nine,
So it's Oh, poor Nancy Dawson.

And do ye ken Nancy Dawson, honey?
The wife who sells the barley, honey?
She won't get up to feed her swine,
And do ye ken Nancy Dawson, honey?


HANDY PANDY

Handy Pandy, Jack-a-dandy,
Loves plum cake and sugar candy.
He bought some at a grocer's shop,
And out he came, hop, hop, hop!


JACK AND JILL

Jack and Jill went up the hill,
  To fetch a pail of water;
Jack fell down, and broke his crown,
  And Jill came tumbling after.

Then up Jack got and off did trot,
  As fast as he could caper,
To old Dame Dob, who patched his nob
  With vinegar and brown paper.


THE ALPHABET

A, B, C, and D,
Pray, playmates, agree.
E, F, and G,
Well, so it shall be.
J, K, and L,
In peace we will dwell.
M, N, and O,
To play let us go.
P, Q, R, and S,
Love may we possess.
W, X, and Y,
Will not quarrel or die.
Z, and ampersand,
Go to school at command.


DANCE TO YOUR DADDIE

Dance to your daddie,
My bonnie laddie;
Dance to your daddie, my bonnie lamb;
You shall get a fishy,
On a little dishy;
You shall get a fishy, when the boat comes home.


ONE MISTY MOISTY MORNING

One misty moisty morning,
    When cloudy was the weather,
I chanced to meet an old man,
    Clothed all in leather.
He began to compliment
    And I began to grin.
How do you do? And how do you do?
    And how do you do again?


ROBIN HOOD AND LITTLE JOHN

Robin Hood, Robin Hood,
    Is in the mickle wood!
Little John, Little John,
    He to the town is gone.

Robin Hood, Robin Hood,
    Telling his beads,
All in the greenwood
    Among the green weeds.

Little John, Little John,
    If he comes no more,
Robin Hood, Robin Hood,
    We shall fret full sore!


RAIN

Rain, rain, go to Spain,
And never come back again.


THE OLD WOMAN FROM FRANCE

There came an old woman from France
Who taught grown-up children to dance;
    But they were so stiff,
    She sent them home in a sniff,
This sprightly old woman from France.


TEETH AND GUMS

Thirty white horses upon a red hill,
Now they tramp, now they champ, now they stand still.


THE ROBINS

A robin and a robin's son
Once went to town to buy a bun.
They couldn't decide on plum or plain,
And so they went back home again.


THE OLD MAN

There was an old man
In a velvet coat,
He kissed a maid
And gave her a groat.
The groat it was crack'd
And would not go,--
Ah, old man, do you serve me so?


T'OTHER LITTLE TUNE

I won't be my father's Jack,
  I won't be my father's Jill;
I will be the fiddler's wife,
  And have music when I will.
      T'other little tune,
      T'other little tune,
      Prithee, Love, play me
      T'other little tune.


MY KITTEN

Hey, my kitten, my kitten,
  And hey, my kitten, my deary!
Such a sweet pet as this
  Was neither far nor neary.


IF ALL THE SEAS WERE ONE SEA

If all the seas were one sea,
What a _great_ sea that would be!
And if all the trees were one tree,
What a _great_ tree that would be!
And if all the axes were one axe,
What a _great_ axe that would be!
And if all the men were one man,
What a _great_ man he would be!
And if the _great_ man took the _great_ axe,
And cut down the _great_ tree,
And let it fall into the _great_ sea,
What a splish splash _that_ would be!


PANCAKE DAY

Great A, little a,
This is pancake day;
Toss the ball high,
Throw the ball low,
Those that come after
May sing heigh-ho!


A PLUM PUDDING

Flour of England, fruit of Spain,
  Met together in a shower of rain;
Put in a bag tied round with a string;
  If you'll tell me this riddle,
  I'll give you a ring.


FOREHEAD, EYES, CHEEKS, NOSE, MOUTH, AND CHIN

Here sits the Lord Mayor,
    Here sit his two men,
Here sits the cock,
    Here sits the hen,
Here sit the little chickens,
    Here they run in.
Chin-chopper, chin-chopper, chin chopper, chin!


TWO PIGEONS

I had two pigeons bright and gay,
They flew from me the other day.
What was the reason they did go?
I cannot tell, for I do not know.


A SURE TEST

If you are to be a gentleman,
    As I suppose you'll be,
You'll neither laugh nor smile,
    For a tickling of the knee.


LOCK AND KEY

"I am a gold lock."
"I am a gold key."
"I am a silver lock."
"I am a silver key."
"I am a brass lock."
"I am a brass key."
"I am a lead lock."
"I am a lead key."
"I am a don lock."
"I am a don key!"


THE LION AND THE UNICORN

The Lion and the Unicorn were fighting for the crown,
The Lion beat the Unicorn all around the town.
Some gave them white bread, and some gave them brown,
Some gave them plum-cake, and sent them out of town.


THE MERCHANTS OF LONDON

Hey diddle dinkety poppety pet,
The merchants of London they wear scarlet,
Silk in the collar and gold in the hem,
So merrily march the merchant men.


I HAD A LITTLE HUSBAND

I had a little husband no bigger than my thumb,
I put him in a pint pot, and there I bid him drum,
I bought a little handkerchief to wipe his little nose,
And a pair of little garters to tie his little hose.


TO BABYLON

How many miles is it to Babylon?--
    Threescore miles and ten.
Can I get there by candle-light?--
    Yes, and back again.
If your heels are nimble and light,
You may get there by candle-light.


I'LL TELL YOU A STORY

  I'll tell you a story
  About Jack-a-Nory:
And now my story's begun.
  I'll tell you another
  About his brother:
And now my story is done.


A STRANGE OLD WOMAN

There was an old woman, and what do you think?
She lived upon nothing but victuals and drink;
Victuals and drink were the chief of her diet,
And yet this old woman could never be quiet.


SLEEP, BABY, SLEEP

  Sleep, baby, sleep,
Our cottage vale is deep:
The little lamb is on the green,
With woolly fleece so soft and clean--
  Sleep, baby, sleep.
  Sleep, baby, sleep,
Down where the woodbines creep;
Be always like the lamb so mild,
A kind, and sweet, and gentle child.
  Sleep, baby, sleep.


CRY, BABY

Cry, baby, cry,
Put your finger in your eye,
And tell your mother it wasn't I.


BAA, BAA, BLACK SHEEP

Baa, baa, black sheep,
Have you any wool?
Yes, marry, have I,
Three bags full;

One for my master,
One for my dame,
But none for the little boy
Who cries in the lane.


LITTLE FRED

When little Fred went to bed,
  He always said his prayers;

He kissed mamma, and then papa,
  And straightway went upstairs.


THE CAT AND THE FIDDLE

    Hey, diddle, diddle!
    The cat and the fiddle,
The cow jumped over the moon;
    The little dog laughed
    To see such sport,
And the dish ran away with the spoon.


DOCTOR FELL

I do not like thee, Doctor Fell;
The reason why I cannot tell;
But this I know, and know full well,
I do not like thee, Doctor Fell!


A COUNTING-OUT RHYME

Hickery, dickery, 6 and 7,
Alabone, Crackabone, 10 and 11,
Spin, spun, muskidun,
Twiddle 'em, twaddle 'em, 21.


JACK AND HIS FIDDLE

"Jacky, come and give me thy fiddle,
  If ever thou mean to thrive."
"Nay, I'll not give my fiddle
  To any man alive.

"If I should give my fiddle,
  They'll think that I've gone mad;
For many a joyous day
  My fiddle and I have had."


BUTTONS

  Buttons, a farthing a pair!
Come, who will buy them of me?
They're round and sound and pretty,
And fit for girls of the city.
Come, who will buy them of me?
  Buttons, a farthing a pair!


HOT BOILED BEANS

Ladies and gentlemen come to supper--
Hot boiled beans and very good butter.


LITTLE PUSSY

I like little Pussy,
  Her coat is so warm,

And if I don't hurt her
  She'll do me no harm;

So I'll not pull her tail,
  Nor drive her away,

But Pussy and I
  Very gently will play.


SING A SONG OF SIXPENCE

Sing a song of sixpence,
   A pocket full of rye;
Four-and-twenty blackbirds
   Baked in a pie!

When the pie was opened
   The birds began to sing;
Was not that a dainty dish
   To set before the king?

The king was in his counting-house,
   Counting out his money;
The queen was in the parlor,
   Eating bread and honey.

The maid was in the garden,
   Hanging out the clothes;
When down came a blackbird
   And snapped off her nose.


TOMMY TITTLEMOUSE

Little Tommy Tittlemouse
Lived in a little house;
He caught fishes
In other men's ditches.


THE DERBY RAM

As I was going to Derby all on a market-day,
I met the finest ram, sir, that ever was fed upon hay;
  Upon hay, upon hay, upon hay;
I met the finest ram, sir, that ever was fed upon hay.
This ram was fat behind, sir; this ram was fat before;
This ram was ten yards round, sir; indeed, he was no more;
  No more, no more, no more;
This ram was ten yards round, sir; indeed, he was no more.
The horns that grew on his head, sir, they were so wondrous high,
As I've been plainly told, sir, they reached up to the sky.
  The sky, the sky, the sky;
As I've been plainly told, sir, they reached up to the sky.
The tail that grew from his back, sir, was six yards and an ell;
And it was sent to Derby to toll the market bell;
  The bell, the bell, the bell;
And it was sent to Derby to toll the market bell.


THE HOBBY-HORSE

I had a little hobby-horse,
    And it was dapple gray;
Its head was made of pea-straw,
    Its tail was made of hay.

I sold it to an old woman
    For a copper groat;
And I'll not sing my song again
    Without another coat.


THE MULBERRY BUSH

Here we go round the mulberry bush,
The mulberry bush, the mulberry bush,
Here we go round the mulberry bush.
On a cold and frosty morning.

This is the way we wash our hands,
Wash our hands, wash our hands,
This is the way we wash our hands,
On a cold and frosty morning.

This is the way we wash our clothes.
Wash our clothes, wash our clothes,
This is the way we wash our clothes,
On a cold and frosty morning.

This is the way we go to school,
Go to school, go to school,
This is the way we go to school,
On a cold and frosty morning.

This is the way we come out of school,
Come out of school, come out of school,
This is the way we come out of school,
On a cold and frosty morning.


YOUNG LAMBS TO SELL

If I'd as much money as I could tell,
I never would cry young lambs to sell;
Young lambs to sell, young lambs to sell;
I never would cry young lambs to sell.


BOY AND THE SPARROW

A little cock-sparrow sat on a green tree,
And he chirruped, he chirruped, so merry was he;
A naughty boy came with his wee bow and arrow,
Determined to shoot this little cock-sparrow.

"This little cock-sparrow shall make me a stew,
And his giblets shall make me a little pie, too."
"Oh, no," says the sparrow "I won't make a stew."
So he flapped his wings and away he flew.


OLD WOMAN, OLD WOMAN

There was an old woman tossed in a basket,
  Seventeen times as high as the moon;
But where she was going no mortal could tell,
  For under her arm she carried a broom.

"Old woman, old woman, old woman," said I,
  "Whither, oh whither, oh whither so high?"
"To sweep the cobwebs from the sky;
  And I'll be with you by-and-by."


THE FIRST OF MAY

The fair maid who, the first of May,
Goes to the fields at break of day,
And washes in dew from the hawthorn-tree,
Will ever after handsome be.


SULKY SUE

Here's Sulky Sue,
What shall we do?
Turn her face to the wall
Till she comes to.


THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT

This is the house that Jack built.
This is the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the maiden all forlorn,
That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the man all tattered and torn,
That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the priest all shaven and shorn,
That married the man all tattered and torn,
That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the cock that crowed in the morn,
That waked the priest all shaven and shorn,
That married the man all tattered and torn,
That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the farmer sowing the corn,
That kept the cock that crowed in the morn,
That waked the priest all shaven and shorn,
That married the man all tattered and torn,
That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.


SATURDAY, SUNDAY

On Saturday night
    Shall be all my care
To powder my locks
    And curl my hair.

On Sunday morning
    My love will come in.
When he will marry me
    With a gold ring.


LITTLE JENNY WREN

Little Jenny Wren fell sick,
    Upon a time;
In came Robin Redbreast
    And brought her cake and wine.

"Eat well of my cake, Jenny,
    Drink well of my wine."
"Thank you, Robin, kindly,
    You shall be mine."

Jenny she got well,
    And stood upon her feet,
And told Robin plainly
    She loved him not a bit.

Robin being angry,
    Hopped upon a twig,
Saying, "Out upon you! Fie upon you!
    Bold-faced jig!"


THE OLD WOMAN AND THE PEDLAR

There was an old woman, as I've heard tell,
She went to market her eggs for to sell;
She went to market all on a market-day,
And she fell asleep on the King's highway.

There came by a pedlar whose name was Stout,
He cut her petticoats all round about;
He cut her petticoats up to the knees,
Which made the old woman to shiver and freeze.

When the little old woman first did wake,
She began to shiver and she began to shake;
She began to wonder and she began to cry,
"Lauk a mercy on me, this can't be I!

"But if it be I, as I hope it be,
I've a little dog at home, and he'll know me;
If it be I, he'll wag his little tail,
And if it be not I, he'll loudly bark and wail."

Home went the little woman all in the dark;
Up got the little dog, and he began to bark;
He began to bark, so she began to cry,
"Lauk a mercy on me, this is none of I!"


BOBBY SNOOKS

Little Bobby Snooks was fond of his books,
  And loved by his usher and master;
But naughty Jack Spry, he got a black eye,
  And carries his nose in a plaster.


THE LITTLE MOPPET

    I had a little moppet,
    I put it in my pocket,
And fed it with corn and hay.
    There came a proud beggar.
    And swore he should have her;
And stole my little moppet away.


I SAW A SHIP A-SAILING

I saw a ship a-sailing,
A-sailing on the sea;
And, oh! it was all laden
With pretty things for thee!

There were comfits in the cabin,
And apples in the hold;
The sails were made of silk,
And the masts were made of gold.

The four-and-twenty sailors
That stood between the decks,
Were four-and-twenty white mice
With chains about their necks.

The captain was a duck,
With a packet on his back;
And when the ship began to move,
The captain said, "Quack! Quack!"


A WALNUT

As soft as silk, as white as milk,
As bitter as gall, a strong wall,
And a green coat covers me all.


THE MAN IN THE MOON

The Man in the Moon came tumbling down,
  And asked the way to Norwich;
He went by the south, and burnt his mouth
  With eating cold pease porridge.


ONE, HE LOVES

One, he loves; two, he loves;
Three, he loves, they say;
Four, he loves with all his heart;
Five, he casts away.
Six, he loves; seven, she loves;
Eight, they both love.
Nine, he comes; ten, he tarries;
Eleven, he courts; twelve, he marries.


BAT, BAT

    Bat, bat,
    Come under my hat,
And I'll give you a slice of bacon;
    And when I bake
    I'll give you a cake
If I am not mistaken.


HARK! HARK!

Hark, hark! the dogs do bark!
  Beggars are coming to town:
Some in jags, and some in rags,
  And some in velvet gown.


THE HART

The hart he loves the high wood,
  The hare she loves the hill;
The Knight he loves his bright sword,
  The Lady--loves her will.


MY LOVE

Saw ye aught of my love a-coming from the market?
  A peck of meal upon her back,
  A babby in her basket;
Saw ye aught of my love a-coming from the market?


THE MAN OF BOMBAY

There was a fat man of Bombay,
Who was smoking one sunshiny day;
    When a bird called a snipe
    Flew away with his pipe,
Which vexed the fat man of Bombay.


POOR OLD ROBINSON CRUSOE!

Poor old Robinson Crusoe!
Poor old Robinson Crusoe!
   They made him a coat
   Of an old Nanny goat.
I wonder why they should do so!
   With a ring-a-ting-tang,
   And a ring-a-ting-tang,
Poor old Robinson Crusoe!


A SIEVE

A riddle, a riddle, as I suppose,
A hundred eyes and never a nose!


MY MAID MARY

My maid Mary she minds the dairy,
  While I go a-hoeing and mowing each morn;
Gaily run the reel and the little spinning wheel,
  While I am singing and mowing my corn.


A DIFFICULT RHYME

What is the rhyme for porringer?
The king he had a daughter fair,
And gave the Prince of Orange her.


PRETTY JOHN WATTS

  Pretty John Watts,
  We are troubled with rats.
Will you drive them out of the house?
  We have mice, too, in plenty,
  That feast in the pantry,
  But let them stay
  And nibble away,
What harm in a little brown mouse?


GOOD ADVICE

Come when you're called,
  Do what you're bid,
Shut the door after you,
  And never be chid.


I LOVE SIXPENCE

I love sixpence, a jolly, jolly sixpence,
  I love sixpence as my life;
I spent a penny of it, I spent a penny of it,
  I took a penny home to my wife.

Oh, my little fourpence, a jolly, jolly fourpence,
  I love fourpence as my life;
I spent twopence of it, I spent twopence of it,
  And I took twopence home to my wife.


BYE, BABY BUNTING

Bye, baby bunting,
Father's gone a-hunting,
Mother's gone a-milking,
Sister's gone a-silking,
And brother's gone to buy a skin
To wrap the baby bunting in.


TOM, TOM, THE PIPER'S SON

Tom, Tom, the piper's son,
Stole a pig, and away he run,
  The pig was eat,
  And Tom was beat,
And Tom ran crying down the street.


COMICAL FOLK

    In a cottage in Fife
    Lived a man and his wife
Who, believe me, were comical folk;
    For, to people's surprise,
    They both saw with their eyes,
And their tongues moved whenever they spoke!

    When they were asleep,
    I'm told, that to keep
Their eyes open they could not contrive;
    They both walked on their feet,
    And 'twas thought what they eat
Helped, with drinking, to keep them alive!


COCK-CROW

Cocks crow in the morn
    To tell us to rise,
And he who lies late
    Will never be wise;

For early to bed
    And early to rise,
Is the way to be healthy
    And wealthy and wise.


TOMMY SNOOKS

As Tommy Snooks and Bessy Brooks
  Were walking out one Sunday,
Says Tommy Snooks to Bessy Brooks,
  "Wilt marry me on Monday?"


THE THREE SONS

There was an old woman had three sons,
Jerry and James and John,
Jerry was hanged, James was drowned,
John was lost and never was found;
And there was an end of her three sons,
Jerry and James and John!


THE BLACKSMITH

"Robert Barnes, my fellow fine,
Can you shoe this horse of mine?"
"Yes, good sir, that I can,
As well as any other man;
There's a nail, and there's a prod,
Now, good sir, your horse is shod."


TWO GRAY KITS

  The two gray kits,
And the gray kits' mother,
  All went over
The bridge together.

The bridge broke down,
  They all fell in;
"May the rats go with you,"
  Says Tom Bolin.


ONE, TWO, BUCKLE MY SHOE

One, two,
Buckle my shoe;
Three, four,
Knock at the door;
Five, six,
Pick up sticks;
Seven, eight,
Lay them straight;
Nine, ten,
A good, fat hen;
Eleven, twelve,
Dig and delve;
Thirteen, fourteen,
Maids a-courting;
Fifteen, sixteen,
Maids in the kitchen;
Seventeen, eighteen,
Maids a-waiting;
Nineteen, twenty,
My plate's empty.


COCK-A-DOODLE-DO!

Cock-a-doodle-do!
My dame has lost her shoe,
My master's lost his fiddle-stick
And knows not what to do.

Cock-a-doodle-do!
What is my dame to do?
Till master finds his fiddle-stick,
She'll dance without her shoe.


PAIRS OR PEARS

Twelve pairs hanging high,
Twelve knights riding by,
Each knight took a pear,
And yet left a dozen there.


BELLEISLE

At the siege of Belleisle
I was there all the while,
All the while, all the while,
At the siege of Belleisle.


OLD KING COLE

    Old King Cole
    Was a merry old soul,
And a merry old soul was he;
    He called for his pipe,
    And he called for his bowl,
And he called for his fiddlers three!
And every fiddler, he had a fine fiddle,
    And a very fine fiddle had he.
"Twee tweedle dee, tweedle dee," went the fiddlers.
    Oh, there's none so rare
    As can compare
With King Cole and his fiddlers three.


SEE, SEE

See, see! What shall I see?
A horse's head where his tail should be.


DAPPLE-GRAY

I had a little pony,
    His name was Dapple-Gray,
I lent him to a lady,
    To ride a mile away.
She whipped him, she slashed him,
    She rode him through the mire;
I would not lend my pony now
    For all the lady's hire.


A WELL

As round as an apple, as deep as a cup,
And all the king's horses can't fill it up.


COFFEE AND TEA

Molly, my sister and I fell out,
And what do you think it was all about?
She loved coffee and I loved tea,
And that was the reason we couldn't agree.


PUSSY-CAT MEW

Pussy-cat Mew jumped over a coal,
And in her best petticoat burnt a great hole.
Poor Pussy's weeping, she'll have no more milk
Until her best petticoat's mended with silk.


THE LITTLE GIRL WITH A CURL

There was a little girl who had a little curl
Right in the middle of her forehead;
When she was good, she was very, very good,
And when she was bad she was horrid.


DREAMS

Friday night's dream, on Saturday told,
Is sure to come true, be it never so old.


A COCK AND BULL STORY

The cock's on the housetop blowing his horn;
The bull's in the barn a-threshing of corn;
The maids in the meadows are making of hay;
The ducks in the river are swimming away.


FOR BABY

You shall have an apple,
YOU shall have a plum,
You shall have a rattle,
When papa comes home.


MYSELF

As I walked by myself,
And talked to myself,
  Myself said unto me:
"Look to thyself,
Take care of thyself,
  For nobody cares for thee."

I answered myself,
And said to myself
  In the selfsame repartee:
"Look to thyself,
Or not look to thyself,
  The selfsame thing will be."


OVER THE WATER

Over the water, and over the sea,
And over the water to Charley,
I'll have none of your nasty beef,
Nor I'll have none of your barley;
But I'll have some of your very best flour
To make a white cake for my Charley.


CANDLE-SAVING

To make your candles last for aye,
You wives and maids give ear-O!
To put them out's the only way,
Says honest John Boldero.


FEARS AND TEARS

Tommy's tears and Mary's fears
Will make them old before their years.


THE KILKENNY CATS

There were once two cats of Kilkenny.
Each thought there was one cat too many;
So they fought and they fit,
And they scratched and they bit,
  Till, excepting their nails,
  And the tips of their tails,
Instead of two cats, there weren't any.


OLD GRIMES

Old Grimes is dead, that good old man,
     We ne'er shall see him more;
He used to wear a long brown coat
     All buttoned down before.


A WEEK OF BIRTHDAYS

Monday's child is fair of face,
Tuesday's child is full of grace,
Wednesday's child is full of woe,
Thursday's child has far to go,
Friday's child is loving and giving,
Saturday's child works hard for its living,
But the child that's born on the Sabbath day
Is bonny and blithe, and good and gay.


A CHIMNEY

Black within and red without;
Four corners round about.


LADYBIRD

Ladybird, ladybird, fly away home!
Your house is on fire, your children all gone,
All but one, and her name is Ann,
And she crept under the pudding pan.


THE MAN WHO HAD NAUGHT

There was a man and he had naught,
    And robbers came to rob him;
He crept up to the chimney pot,
    And then they thought they had him.

But he got down on t'other side,
    And then they could not find him;
He ran fourteen miles in fifteen days,
    And never looked behind him.


THE TAILORS AND THE SNAIL

Four and Twenty tailors
    Went to kill a snail;
The best man among them
    Durst not touch her tail;
She put out her horns
    Like a little Kyloe cow.
Run, tailors, run, or
    She'll kill you all e'en now.


AROUND THE GREEN GRAVEL

Around the green gravel the grass grows green,
And all the pretty maids are plain to be seen;
Wash them with milk, and clothe them with silk,
And write their names with a pen and ink.


INTERY, MINTERY

Intery, mintery, cutery corn,
Apple seed and apple thorn;
Wire, brier, limber-lock,
Five geese in a flock,
Sit and sing by a spring,
O-u-t, and in again.


CAESAR'S SONG

  Bow-wow-wow!
Whose dog art thou?
Little Tom Tinker's dog,
  Bow-wow-wow!


AS I WAS GOING ALONG

As I was going along, along,
A-singing a comical song, song, song,
The lane that I went was so long, long, long,
And the song that I sang was so long, long, long,
And so I went singing along.


HECTOR PROTECTOR

Hector Protector was dressed all in green;
Hector Protector was sent to the Queen.
The Queen did not like him,
No more did the King;
So Hector Protector was sent back again.


BILLY, BILLY

"Billy, Billy, come and play,
While the sun shines bright as day."

"Yes, my Polly, so I will,
For I love to please you still."

"Billy, Billy, have you seen
Sam and Betsy on the green?"

"Yes, my Poll, I saw them pass,
Skipping o'er the new-mown grass."

"Billy, Billy, come along,
And I will sing a pretty song."


ROCK-A-BYE, BABY

Rock-a-bye, baby, thy cradle is green;
Father's a nobleman, mother's a queen;
And Betty's a lady, and wears a gold ring;
And Johnny's a drummer, and drums for the king.


THE MAN IN THE WILDERNESS

The man in the wilderness
    Asked me
How many strawberries
    Grew in the sea.
I answered him
    As I thought good,
As many as red herrings
    Grew in the wood.


LITTLE JACK HORNER

Little Jack Horner
Sat in the corner,
    Eating of Christmas pie:
He put in his thumb,
And pulled out a plum,
    And said, "What a good boy am I!"


THE BIRD SCARER

Away, birds, away!
Take a little and leave a little,
And do not come again;
For if you do,
I will shoot you through,
And there will be an end of you.


MARY, MARY, QUITE CONTRARY

Mary, Mary, quite contrary,
  How does your garden grow?
Silver bells and cockle-shells,
  And pretty maids all of a row.


BESSY BELL AND MARY GRAY

Bessy Bell and Mary Gray,
  They were two bonny lasses;
They built their house upon the lea,
  And covered it with rushes.

Bessy kept the garden gate,
  And Mary kept the pantry;
Bessy always had to wait,
  While Mary lived in plenty.


NEEDLES AND PINS

Needles and pins, needles and pins,
When a man marries his trouble begins.


PUSSY-CAT AND THE DUMPLINGS

Pussy-cat ate the dumplings, the dumplings,
    Pussy-cat ate the dumplings.
Mamma stood by, and cried, "Oh, fie!
    Why did you eat the dumplings?"


DANCE, THUMBKIN DANCE

Dance, Thumbkin, dance;
      (_keep the thumb in motion_
Dance, ye merrymen, everyone.
      (_all the fingers in motion_
For Thumbkin, he can dance alone,
      (_the thumb alone moving_
Thumbkin, he can dance alone.
      (_the thumb alone moving_
Dance, Foreman, dance,
      (_the first finger moving_
Dance, ye merrymen, everyone.
      (_all moving_
But Foreman, he can dance alone,
      (_the first finger moving_
Foreman, he can dance alone.
      (_the first finger moving_
Dance, Longman, dance,
      (_the second finger moving_
Dance, ye merrymen, everyone.
      (_all moving_
For Longman, he can dance alone,
      (_the second finger moving_
Longman, he can dance alone.
      (_the second finger moving_
Dance, Ringman, dance,
      (_the third finger moving_
Dance, ye merrymen, dance.
      (_all moving_
But Ringman cannot dance alone,
      (_the third finger moving_
Ringman, he cannot dance alone.
      (_the third finger moving_
Dance, Littleman, dance,
      (_the fourth finger moving_
Dance, ye merrymen, dance.
      (_all moving_
But Littleman, he can dance alone,
      (_the fourth finger moving_
Littleman, he can dance alone.
      (_the fourth finger moving_


MARY'S CANARY

Mary had a pretty bird,
  Feathers bright and yellow,
Slender legs--upon my word
  He was a pretty fellow!

The sweetest note he always sung,
  Which much delighted Mary.
She often, where the cage was hung,
  Sat hearing her canary.


THE LITTLE BIRD

Once I saw a little bird
    Come hop, hop, hop;
So I cried, "Little bird,
    Will you stop, stop, stop?"

And was going to the window
    To say, "How do you do?"
But he shook his little tail,
    And far away he flew.


BIRDS OF A FEATHER

Birds of a feather flock together,
    And so will pigs and swine;
Rats and mice will have their choice,
    And so will I have mine.


THE DUSTY MILLER

Margaret wrote a letter,
Sealed it with her finger,
Threw it in the dam
For the dusty miller.
Dusty was his coat,
Dusty was the siller,
Dusty was the kiss
I'd from the dusty miller.
If I had my pockets
Full of gold and siller,
I would give it all
To my dusty miller.


A STAR

Higher than a house, higher than a tree.
Oh! whatever can that be?


THE GREEDY MAN

The greedy man is he who sits
    And bites bits out of plates,
Or else takes up an almanac
    And gobbles all the dates.


THE TEN O'CLOCK SCHOLAR

A diller, a dollar, a ten o'clock scholar!
    What makes you come so soon?
You used to come at ten o'clock,
    But now you come at noon.


COCK-A-DOODLE-DO

Oh, my pretty cock, oh, my handsome cock,
  I pray you, do not crow before day,
And your comb shall be made of the very beaten gold,
  And your wings of the silver so gray.


AN ICICLE

    Lives in winter,
    Dies in summer,
And grows with its roots upward!


A SHIP'S NAIL

    Over the water,
    And under the water,
And always with its head down.


THE OLD WOMAN OF LEEDS

There was an old woman of Leeds,
Who spent all her time in good deeds;
    She worked for the poor
    Till her fingers were sore,
This pious old woman of Leeds!


THE BOY IN THE BARN

A little boy went into a barn,
  And lay down on some hay.
An owl came out, and flew about,
  And the little boy ran away.


SUNSHINE

Hick-a-more, Hack-a-more,
On the King's kitchen door,
All the King's horses,
And all the King's men,
Couldn't drive Hick-a-more, Hack-a-more,
Off the King's kitchen door.


WILLY, WILLY

Willy, Willy Wilkin
Kissed the maids a-milking,
    Fa, la, la!
And with his merry daffing
He set them all a-laughing,
    Ha, ha, ha!


TONGS

Long legs, crooked thighs,
Little head, and no eyes.


JACK JINGLE

Little Jack Jingle, He used to live single;
But when he got tired of this kind of life,
He left off being single and lived with his wife.
Now what do you think of little Jack Jingle?
Before he was married he used to live single.


THE QUARREL

My little old man and I fell out;
I'll tell you what 'twas all about,--
I had money and he had none,
And that's the way the noise begun.


THE PUMPKIN-EATER

Peter, Peter, pumpkin-eater,
Had a wife and couldn't keep her;
He put her in a pumpkin shell,
And there he kept her very well.


SHOEING

  Shoe the colt,
  Shoe the colt,
Shoe the wild mare;
  Here a nail,
  There a nail,
Yet she goes bare.


BETTY BLUE

    Little Betty Blue
    Lost her holiday shoe;
What shall little Betty do?
    Give her another
    To match the other
And then she'll walk upon two.


THAT'S ALL

There was an old woman sat spinning,
And that's the first beginning;

She had a calf,
And that's half;

She took it by the tail,
And threw it over the wall,
And that's all!


BEDTIME

The Man in the Moon looked out of the moon,
  Looked out of the moon and said,
"'Tis time for all children, on the earth
  To think about getting to bed!"


DANCE, LITTLE BABY

Dance, little Baby, dance up high!
Never mind, Baby, Mother is by.
Crow and caper, caper and crow,
There, little Baby, there you go!
Up to the ceiling, down to the ground,
Backwards and forwards, round and round;
Dance, little Baby and Mother will sing,
With the merry coral, ding, ding, ding!


MY LITTLE MAID

High diddle doubt, my candle's out
  My little maid is not at home;
Saddle my hog and bridle my dog,
  And fetch my little maid home.


FOR WANT OF A NAIL

For want of a nail, the shoe was lost;
For want of the shoe, the horse was lost;
For want of the horse, the rider was lost;
For want of the rider, the battle was lost;
For want of the battle, the kingdom was lost,
And all for the want of a horseshoe nail.


PEASE PORRIDGE

Pease porridge hot,
  Pease porridge cold,
Pease porridge in the pot,
  Nine days old.
Some like it hot,
  Some like it cold,
Some like it in the pot,
  Nine days old.


RING A RING O' ROSES

Ring a ring o' roses,
A pocketful of posies.
Tisha! Tisha!
We all fall down.


THE CROOKED SIXPENCE

There was a crooked man, and he went a crooked mile,
He found a crooked sixpence beside a crooked stile;
He bought a crooked cat, which caught a crooked mouse,
And they all lived together in a little crooked house.


THIS IS THE WAY

This is the way the ladies ride,
    Tri, tre, tre, tree,
    Tri, tre, tre, tree!
This is the way the ladies ride,
    Tri, tre, tre, tre, tri-tre-tre-tree!

This is the way the gentlemen ride,
    Gallop-a-trot,
    Gallop-a-trot!
This is the way the gentlemen ride,
    Gallop-a-gallop-a-trot!

This is the way the farmers ride,
    Hobbledy-hoy,
    Hobbledy-hoy!
This is the way the farmers ride,
    Hobbledy-hobbledy-hoy!


DUCKS AND DRAKES

  A duck and a drake,
  And a halfpenny cake,
With a penny to pay the old baker.
  A hop and a scotch
  Is another notch,
Slitherum, slatherum, take her.


THE DONKEY

Donkey, donkey, old and gray,
Ope your mouth and gently bray;
Lift your ears and blow your horn,
To wake the world this sleepy morn.


IF

If all the world were apple pie,
  And all the sea were ink,
And all the trees were bread and cheese,
  What should we have for drink?


THE BELLS

"You owe me five shillings,"
Say the bells of St. Helen's.
"When will you pay me?"
Say the bells of Old Bailey.
"When I grow rich,"
Say the bells of Shoreditch.
"When will that be?"
Say the bells of Stepney.
"I do not know,"
Says the great Bell of Bow.
"Two sticks in an apple,"
Ring the bells of Whitechapel.
"Halfpence and farthings,"
Say the bells of St. Martin's.
"Kettles and pans,"
Say the bells of St. Ann's.
"Brickbats and tiles,"
Say the bells of St. Giles.
"Old shoes and slippers,"
Say the bells of St. Peter's.
"Pokers and tongs,"
Say the bells of St. John's.


LITTLE GIRL AND QUEEN

"Little girl, little girl, where have you been?"
"Gathering roses to give to the Queen."
"Little girl, little girl, what gave she you?"
"She gave me a diamond as big as my shoe."


THE KING OF FRANCE

The King of France went up the hill,
    With twenty thousand men;
The King of France came down the hill,
    And ne'er went up again.


PETER PIPER

Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers;
A peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked.
If Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers,
Where's the peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked?


ONE TO TEN

1, 2, 3, 4, 5!
I caught a hare alive;
6, 7, 8, 9, 10!
I let her go again.


AN EQUAL

Read my riddle, I pray.
What God never sees,
What the king seldom sees,
What we see every day.


THE TARTS

    The Queen of Hearts,
    She made some tarts,
All on a summer's day;
    The Knave of Hearts,
    He stole the tarts,
And took them clean away.

    The King of Hearts
    Called for the tarts,
And beat the Knave full sore;
    The Knave of Hearts
    Brought back the tarts,
And vowed he'd steal no more.


COME, LET'S TO BED

"To bed! To bed!"
    Says Sleepy-head;
"Tarry awhile," says Slow;
"Put on the pan,"
    Says Greedy Nan;
    "We'll sup before we go."


LITTLE MAID

"Little maid, pretty maid, whither goest thou?"
"Down in the forest to milk my cow."
"Shall I go with thee?" "No, not now;
When I send for thee, then come thou."


WHAT ARE LITTLE BOYS MADE OF?

What are little boys made of, made of?
What are little boys made of?
"Snaps and snails, and puppy-dogs' tails;
And that's what little boys are made of."

What are little girls made of, made of?
What are little girls made of?
"Sugar and spice, and all that's nice;
And that's what little girls are made of."


BANDY LEGS

As I was going to sell my eggs
I met a man with bandy legs,
Bandy legs and crooked toes;
I tripped up his heels, and he fell on his nose.


THE GIRL AND THE BIRDS

When I was a little girl, about seven years old,
I hadn't got a petticoat, to cover me from the cold.
So I went into Darlington, that pretty little town,
And there I bought a petticoat, a cloak, and a gown.
I went into the woods and built me a kirk,
And all the birds of the air, they helped me to work.
The hawk with his long claws pulled down the stone,
The dove with her rough bill brought me them home.
The parrot was the clergyman, the peacock was the clerk,
The bullfinch played the organ,--we made merry work.


A PIG

As I went to Bonner,
    I met a pig
    Without a wig
Upon my word and honor.


JENNY WREN

As little Jenny Wren
    Was sitting by her shed.
She waggled with her tail,
    And nodded with her head.
She waggled with her tail,
    And nodded with her head,
As little Jenny Wren
    Was sitting by the shed.


LITTLE TOM TUCKER

Little Tom Tucker
    Sings for his supper.
What shall he eat?
    White bread and butter.
How will he cut it
    Without e'er a knife?
How will he be married
    Without e'er a wife?


WHERE ARE YOU GOING, MY PRETTY MAID

"Where are you going, my pretty maid?"
"I'm going a-milking, sir," she said.
"May I go with you, my pretty maid?"
"You're kindly welcome, sir," she said.
"What is your father, my pretty maid?"
"My father's a farmer, sir," she said.
"What is your fortune, my pretty maid?"
"My face is my fortune, sir," she said.
"Then I can't marry you, my pretty maid."
"Nobody asked you, sir," she said.


THE OLD WOMAN OF GLOUCESTER

There was an old woman of Gloucester,
Whose parrot two guineas it cost her,
    But its tongue never ceasing,
    Was vastly displeasing
To the talkative woman of Gloucester.


MULTIPLICATION IS VEXATION

Multiplication is vexation,
    Division is as bad;
The Rule of Three doth puzzle me,
    And Practice drives me mad.


LITTLE KING BOGGEN

Little King Boggen, he built a fine hall,
Pie-crust and pastry-crust, that was the wall;
The windows were made of black puddings and white,
And slated with pan-cakes,--you ne'er saw the like!


WHISTLE

"Whistle, daughter, whistle;
    Whistle, daughter dear."
"I cannot whistle, mammy,
    I cannot whistle clear."
"Whistle, daughter, whistle;
    Whistle for a pound."
"I cannot whistle, mammy,
    I cannot make a sound."


BELL HORSES

Bell horses, bell horses, what time of day?
One o'clock, two o'clock, three and away.


TAFFY

Taffy was a Welshman, Taffy was a thief,
Taffy came to my house and stole a piece of beef;
I went to Taffy's house, Taffy was not home;
Taffy came to my house and stole a marrow-bone.

I went to Taffy's house, Taffy was not in;
Taffy came to my house and stole a silver pin;
I went to Taffy's house, Taffy was in bed,
I took up the marrow-bone and flung it at his head.


THE ROBIN

The north wind doth blow,
And we shall have snow,
And what will poor robin do then,
                    Poor thing?

He'll sit in a barn,
And keep himself warm,
And hide his head under his wing,
                    Poor thing!


THE OLD WOMAN OF HARROW

There was an old woman of Harrow,
Who visited in a wheelbarrow;
   And her servant before,
   Knocked loud at each door,
To announce the old woman of Harrow.


YOUNG ROGER AND DOLLY

Young Roger came tapping at Dolly's window,
    Thumpaty, thumpaty, thump!

He asked for admittance; she answered him "No!"
    Frumpaty, frumpaty, frump!

"No, no, Roger, no! as you came you may go!"
    Stumpaty, stumpaty, stump!


THE PIPER AND HIS COW

There was a piper had a cow,
    And he had naught to give her;
He pulled out his pipes and played her a tune,
    And bade the cow consider.

The cow considered very well,
    And gave the piper a penny,
And bade him play the other tune,
    "Corn rigs are bonny."


THE MAN OF DERBY

A little old man of Derby,
How do you think he served me?
He took away my bread and cheese,
And that is how he served me.


THE COACHMAN

Up at Piccadilly, oh!
    The coachman takes his stand,
And when he meets a pretty girl
    He takes her by the hand;
Whip away forever, oh!
    Drive away so clever, oh!
All the way to Bristol, oh!
    He drives her four-in-hand.


THERE WAS AN OLD WOMAN

There was an old woman who lived in a shoe.
She had so many children she didn't know what to do.
She gave them some broth without any bread.
She whipped them all soundly and put them to bed.


A THORN

I went to the wood and got it;
I sat me down to look for it
And brought it home because I couldn't find it.


THE OLD WOMAN OF SURREY

There was an old woman in Surrey,
Who was morn, noon, and night in a hurry;
    Called her husband a fool,
    Drove the children to school,
The worrying old woman of Surrey.


THE LITTLE MOUSE

I have seen you, little mouse,
Running all about the house,
Through the hole your little eye
In the wainscot peeping sly,
Hoping soon some crumbs to steal,
To make quite a hearty meal.
Look before you venture out,
See if pussy is about.
If she's gone, you'll quickly run
To the larder for some fun;
Round about the dishes creep,
Taking into each a peep,
To choose the daintiest that's there,
Spoiling things you do not care.


BOY AND GIRL

There was a little boy and a little girl
    Lived in an alley;
Says the little boy to the little girl,
    "Shall I, oh, shall I?"
Says the little girl to the little boy,
    "What shall we do?"
Says the little boy to the little girl,
    "I will kiss you."


WHEN

When I was a bachelor
    I lived by myself;
And all the bread and cheese I got
    I laid up on the shelf.

The rats and the mice
    They made such a strife,
I was forced to go to London
    To buy me a wife.

The streets were so bad,
    And the lanes were so narrow,
I was forced to bring my wife home
    In a wheelbarrow.

The wheelbarrow broke,
    And my wife had a fall;
Down came wheelbarrow,
    Little wife and all.


SING, SING

Sing, sing, what shall I sing?
Cat's run away with the pudding-string!
Do, do, what shall I do?
The cat has bitten it quite in two.


LONDON BRIDGE

London Bridge is broken down,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
London Bridge is broken down,
With a gay lady.

How shall we build it up again?
Dance over my Lady Lee;
How shall we build it up again?
With a gay lady.

Build it up with silver and gold,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Build it up with silver and gold,
With a gay lady.

Silver and gold will be stole away,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Silver and gold will be stole away,
With a gay lady.

Build it up with iron and steel,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Build it up with iron and steel,
With a gay lady.

Iron and steel will bend and bow,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Iron and steel will bend and bow,
With a gay lady.

Build it up with wood and clay,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Build it up with wood and clay,
With a gay lady.

Wood and clay will wash away,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Wood and clay will wash away,
With a gay lady.

Build it up with stone so strong,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Huzza! 'twill last for ages long,
With a gay lady.


MARCH WINDS

March winds and April showers
Bring forth May flowers.


THE BALLOON

"What is the news of the day,
Good neighbor, I pray?"
"They say the balloon
Is gone up to the moon!"


A CHERRY

As I went through the garden gap,
Who should I meet but Dick Red-cap!
A stick in his hand, a stone in his throat,--
If you'll tell me this riddle, I'll give you a groat.


THE LOST SHOE

Doodle doodle doo,
The Princess lost her shoe:
  Her Highness hopped,--
  The fiddler stopped,
Not knowing what to do.


HOT CODLINS

There was a little woman, as I've been told,
Who was not very young, nor yet very old;
Now this little woman her living got
By selling codlins, hot, hot, hot!


SWAN

Swan, swan, over the sea;
    Swim, swan, swim!
Swan, swan, back again;
    Well swum, swan!


THREE STRAWS

Three straws on a staff
Would make a baby cry and laugh.


THE MAN OF TOBAGO

There was an old man of Tobago
Who lived on rice, gruel, and sago,
    Till much to his bliss,
    His physician said this:
"To a leg, sir, of mutton, you may go."


DING, DONG, BELL

Ding, dong, bell,
Pussy's in the well!
Who put her in?
Little Tommy Lin.

Who pulled her out?
Little Johnny Stout.
What a naughty boy was that,
To try to drown poor pussy-cat.
Who never did him any harm,
But killed the mice in his father's barn!


A SUNSHINY SHOWER

A sunshiny shower
Won't last half an hour.


THE FARMER AND THE RAVEN

A farmer went trotting upon his gray mare,
    Bumpety, bumpety, bump!
With his daughter behind him so rosy and fair,
    Lumpety, lumpety, lump!

A raven cried croak! and they all tumbled down,
    Bumpety, bumpety, bump!
The mare broke her knees, and the farmer his crown,
    Lumpety, lumpety, lump!

The mischievous raven flew laughing away,
    Bumpety, bumpety, bump!
And vowed he would serve them the same the next day,
    Lumpety, lumpety lump!


CHRISTMAS

Christmas is coming, the geese are getting fat,
Please to put a penny in an old man's hat;
If you haven't got a penny a ha'penny will do,
If you haven't got a ha'penny, God bless you.


WILLY BOY

"Willy boy, Willy boy, where are you going?
I will go with you, if that I may."
"I'm going to the meadow to see them a-mowing,
I'm going to help them to make the hay."


POLLY AND SUKEY

Polly, put the kettle on,
Polly, put the kettle on,
Polly, put the kettle on,
And let's drink tea.

Sukey, take it off again,
Sukey, take it off again,
Sukey, take it off again,
They're all gone away.


THE DEATH AND BURIAL OF POOR COCK ROBIN

Who killed Cock Robin?
"I," said the sparrow,
"With my little bow and arrow,
I killed Cock Robin."

Who saw him die?
"I," said the fly,
"With my little eye,
I saw him die."

Who caught his blood?
"I," said the fish,
"With my little dish,
I caught his blood."

Who'll make his shroud?
"I," said the beetle,
"With my thread and needle.
I'll make his shroud."

Who'll carry the torch?
"I," said the linnet,
"I'll come in a minute,
I'll carry the torch."

Who'll be the clerk?
"I," said the lark,
"If it's not in the dark,
I'll be the clerk."

Who'll dig his grave?
"I," said the owl,
"With my spade and trowel
I'll dig his grave."

Who'll be the parson?
"I," said the rook,
"With my little book,
I'll be the parson."

Who'll be chief mourner?
"I," said the dove,
"I mourn for my love,
I'll be chief mourner."

Who'll sing a psalm?
"I," said the thrush,
"As I sit in a bush.
I'll sing a psalm."

Who'll carry the coffin?
"I," said the kite,
"If it's not in the night,
I'll carry the coffin."

Who'll toll the bell?
"I," said the bull,
"Because I can pull,
I'll toll the bell."

All the birds of the air
Fell sighing and sobbing,
When they heard the bell toll
For poor Cock Robin.


THE MOUSE AND THE CLOCK

Hickory, dickory, dock!
The mouse ran up the clock;
  The clock struck one,
  And down he run,
Hickory, dickory, dock!


HOT-CROSS BUNS

    Hot-cross Buns!
    Hot-cross Buns!
One a penny, two a penny,
    Hot-cross Buns!

    Hot-cross Buns!
    Hot-cross Buns!
If ye have no daughters,
Give them to your sons.


BOBBY SHAFTOE

Bobby Shaftoe's gone to sea,
With silver buckles on his knee:
He'll come back and marry me,
    Pretty Bobby Shaftoe!
Bobby Shaftoe's fat and fair,
Combing down his yellow hair;
He's my love for evermore,
    Pretty Bobby Shaftoe.


THE BUNCH OF BLUE RIBBONS

Oh, dear, what can the matter be?
Oh, dear, what can the matter be?
Oh, dear, what can the matter be?
    Johnny's so long at the fair.

He promised he'd buy me a bunch of blue ribbons,
He promised he'd buy me a bunch of blue ribbons,
He promised he'd buy me a bunch of blue ribbons,
To tie up my bonny brown hair.


THE WOMAN OF EXETER

There dwelt an old woman at Exeter;
When visitors came it sore vexed her,
    So for fear they should eat,
    She locked up all her meat,
This stingy old woman of Exeter.


SNEEZING

If you sneeze on Monday, you sneeze for danger;
Sneeze on a Tuesday, kiss a stranger;
Sneeze on a Wednesday, sneeze for a letter;
Sneeze on a Thursday, something better.
Sneeze on a Friday, sneeze for sorrow;
Sneeze on a Saturday, joy to-morrow.


PUSSY-CAT BY THE FIRE

Pussy-cat sits by the fire;
    How can she be fair?
In walks the little dog;
    Says: "Pussy, are you there?
How do you do, Mistress Pussy?
    Mistress Pussy, how d'ye do?"
"I thank you kindly, little dog,
    I fare as well as you!"


WHEN THE SNOW IS ON THE GROUND

The little robin grieves
    When the snow is on the ground,
For the trees have no leaves,
    And no berries can be found.

The air is cold, the worms are hid;
    For robin here what can be done?
Let's strow around some crumbs of bread,
    And then he'll live till snow is gone.



Once upon a time there were four little Rabbits, and their names
were--

          Flopsy,
       Mopsy,
   Cotton-tail,
and Peter.

They lived with their Mother in a sand-bank, underneath the root of a
very big fir-tree.

'Now my dears,' said old Mrs. Rabbit one morning, 'you may go into
the fields or down the lane, but don't go into Mr. McGregor's garden:
your Father had an accident there; he was put in a pie by Mrs.
McGregor.'





'Now run along, and don't get into mischief. I am going out.'

Then old Mrs. Rabbit took a basket and her umbrella, and went through
the wood to the baker's. She bought a loaf of brown bread and five
currant buns.





Flopsy, Mopsy, and Cottontail, who were good little bunnies, went
down the lane to gather blackberries:

But Peter, who was very naughty, ran straight away to Mr. McGregor's
garden, and squeezed under the gate!





First he ate some lettuces and some French beans; and then he ate
some radishes;

And then, feeling rather sick, he went to look for some parsley.





But round the end of a cucumber frame, whom should he meet but Mr.
McGregor!

Mr. McGregor was on his hands and knees planting out young cabbages,
but he jumped up and ran after Peter, waving a rake and calling out,
'Stop thief!'





Peter was most dreadfully frightened; he rushed all over the garden,
for he had forgotten the way back to the gate.

He lost one of his shoes among the cabbages, and the other shoe
amongst the potatoes.

After losing them, he ran on four legs and went faster, so that I
think he might have got away altogether if he had not unfortunately
run into a gooseberry net, and got caught by the large buttons on his
jacket. It was a blue jacket with brass buttons, quite new.





Peter gave himself up for lost, and shed big tears; but his sobs were
overheard by some friendly sparrows, who flew to him in great
excitement, and implored him to exert himself.

Mr. McGregor came up with a sieve, which he intended to pop upon the
top of Peter; but Peter wriggled out just in time, leaving his jacket
behind him.





And rushed into the tool-shed, and jumped into a can. It would have
been a beautiful thing to hide in, if it had not had so much water in it.

Mr. McGregor was quite sure that Peter was somewhere in the
tool-shed, perhaps hidden underneath a flower-pot. He began to turn
them over carefully, looking under each.

Presently Peter sneezed--'Kertyschoo!' Mr. McGregor was after him in
no time.





And tried to put his foot upon Peter, who jumped out of a window,
upsetting three plants. The window was too small for Mr. McGregor, and
he was tired of running after Peter. He went back to his work.

Peter sat down to rest; he was out of breath and trembling with
fright, and he had not the least idea which way to go. Also he was
very damp with sitting in that can.

After a time he began to wander about, going lippity--lippity--not
very fast, and looking all round.





He found a door in a wall; but it was locked, and there was no room
for a fat little rabbit to squeeze underneath.

An old mouse was running in and out over the stone doorstep, carrying
peas and beans to her family in the wood. Peter asked her the way to
the gate, but she had such a large pea in her mouth that she could not
answer. She only shook her head at him. Peter began to cry.

Then he tried to find his way straight across the garden, but he
became more and more puzzled. Presently, he came to a pond where Mr.
McGregor filled his water-cans. A white cat was staring at some
gold-fish, she sat very, very still, but now and then the tip of her
tail twitched as if it were alive. Peter thought it best to go away
without speaking to her; he had heard about cats from his cousin,
little Benjamin Bunny.





He went back towards the tool-shed, but suddenly, quite close to him,
he heard the noise of a hoe--scr-r-ritch, scratch, scratch, scritch.
Peter scuttered underneath the bushes. But presently, as nothing
happened, he came out, and climbed upon a wheelbarrow and peeped over.
The first thing he saw was Mr. McGregor hoeing onions. His back was
turned towards Peter, and beyond him was the gate!

Peter got down very quietly off the wheelbarrow; and started running
as fast as he could go, along a straight walk behind some
black-currant bushes.

Mr. McGregor caught sight of him at the corner, but Peter did not
care. He slipped underneath the gate, and was safe at last in the wood
outside the garden.





Mr. McGregor hung up the little jacket and the shoes for a scare-crow
to frighten the blackbirds.

Peter never stopped running or looked behind him till he got home to
the big fir-tree.

He was so tired that he flopped down upon the nice soft sand on the
floor of the rabbit-hole and shut his eyes. His mother was busy
cooking; she wondered what he had done with his clothes. It was the
second little jacket and pair of shoes that Peter had lost in a
fortnight!



I am sorry to say that Peter was not very well during the evening.

His mother put him to bed, and made some camomile tea; and she gave a
dose of it to Peter!

'One table-spoonful to be taken at bed-time.'





But Flopsy, Mopsy, and Cotton-tail had bread and milk and
blackberries for supper.

THE END






THE PIED PIPER OF HAMELIN


I.

      Hamelin Town's in Brunswick,
    By famous Hanover city;
      The river Weser, deep and wide,
      Washes its wall on the southern side;
      A pleasanter spot you never spied;
    But, when begins my ditty,
      Almost five hundred years ago,
      To see the townsfolk suffer so
        From vermin, was a pity.


II.

      Rats!
    They fought the dogs and killed the cats,
      And bit the babies in the cradles,
      And ate the cheeses out of the vats.
      And licked the soup from the cook's own ladles,
    Split open the kegs of salted sprats,
    Made nests inside men's Sunday hats,
    And even spoiled the women's chats,
      By drowning their speaking
      With shrieking and squeaking
    In fifty different sharps and flats.


III.

    At last the people in a body
        To the Town Hall came flocking:
    "Tis clear," cried they, "our Mayor's a noddy;
        And as for our Corporation--shocking
    To think we buy gowns lined with ermine
    For dolts that can't or won't determine
    What's best to rid us of our vermin!
    You hope, because you're old and obese,
    To find in the furry civic robe ease?
    Rouse up, sirs! Give your brains a racking
    To find the remedy we're lacking,
    Or, sure as fate, we'll send you packing!"
    At this the Mayor and Corporation
    Quaked with a mighty consternation.


IV.

    An hour they sate in council,
      At length the Mayor broke silence:
    "For a guilder I'd my ermine gown sell;
      I wish I were a mile hence!
    It's easy to bid one rack one's brain--
    I'm sure my poor head aches again,
    I've scratched it so, and all in vain
    Oh for a trap, a trap, a trap!"
    Just as he said this, what should hap
    At the chamber door but a gentle tap?
    "Bless us," cried the Mayor, "what's that?"
    (With the Corporation as he sat,
    Looking little though wondrous fat;
    Nor brighter was his eye, nor moister
    Than a too-long-opened oyster,
    Save when at noon his paunch grew mutinous
    For a plate of turtle green and glutinous)
    "Only a scraping of shoes on the mat?
    Anything like the sound of a rat
    Makes my heart go pit-a-pat!"


V.

    "Come in!"--the Mayor cried, looking bigger:
    And in did come the strangest figure!
    His queer long coat from heel to head
    Was half of yellow and half of red,
    And he himself was tall and thin,
    With sharp blue eyes, each like a pin,
    And light loose hair, yet swarthy skin
    No tuft on cheek nor beard on chin,
    But lips where smile went out and in;
    There was no guessing his kith and kin:
    And nobody could enough admire
    The tall man and his quaint attire.
    Quoth one: "It's as my great-grandsire,
    Starting up at the Trump of Doom's tone,
    Had walked this way from his painted tombstone!"


VI.

    He advanced to the council-table:
    And, "Please your honours," said he, "I'm able,
    By means of a secret charm, to draw
    All creatures living beneath the sun,
    That creep or swim or fly or run,
    After me so as you never saw!
    And I chiefly use my charm
    On creatures that do people harm,
    The mole and toad and newt and viper;
    And people call me the Pied Piper."
    (And here they noticed round his neck
    A scarf of red and yellow stripe,
    To match with his coat of the self-same cheque;
    And at the scarf's end hung a pipe;
    And his fingers they noticed were ever straying
    As if impatient to be playing
    Upon his pipe, as low it dangled
    Over his vesture so old-fangled.)
    "Yet," said he, "poor Piper as I am,
    In Tartary I freed the Cham,
    Last June, from his huge swarms of gnats,
    I eased in Asia the Nizam
    Of a monstrous brood of vampyre-bats:
    And as for what your brain bewilders,
    If I can rid your town of rats
    Will you give me a thousand guilders?"
    "One? fifty thousand!"--was the exclamation
    Of the astonished Mayor and Corporation.


VII.

    Into the street the Piper stept,
      Smiling first a little smile,
    As if he knew what magic slept
      In his quiet pipe the while;
    Then, like a musical adept,
    To blow the pipe his lips he wrinkled,
    And green and blue his sharp eyes twinkled,
    Like a candle-flame where salt is sprinkled;
    And ere three shrill notes the pipe uttered,
    You heard as if an army muttered;
    And the muttering grew to a grumbling;
    And the grumbling grew to a mighty rumbling;
    And out of the houses the rats came tumbling.
    Great rats, small rats, lean rats, brawny rats,
    Brown rats, black rats, grey rats, tawny rats,
    Grave old plodders, gay young friskers,
      Fathers, mothers, uncles, cousins,
    Cocking tails and pricking whiskers,
      Families by tens and dozens,
    Brothers, sisters, husbands, wives--
    Followed the Piper for their lives.
    From street to street he piped advancing,
    And step for step they followed dancing,
    Until they came to the river Weser
    Wherein all plunged and perished!
    --Save one who, stout as Julius Cæsar,
    Swam across and lived to carry
    (As he, the manuscript he cherished)
    To Rat-land home his commentary:
    Which was, "At the first shrill notes of the pipe,
    I heard a sound as of scraping tripe,
    And putting apples, wondrous ripe,
    Into a cider-press's gripe:
    And a moving away of pickle-tub-boards,
    And a leaving ajar of conserve-cupboards,
    And a drawing the corks of train-oil-flasks,
    And a breaking the hoops of butter-casks:
    And it seemed as if a voice
    (Sweeter far than by harp or by psaltery
    Is breathed) called out, 'Oh rats, rejoice!
    The world is grown to one vast drysaltery!
    So munch on, crunch on, take your nuncheon,
    Breakfast, supper, dinner, luncheon!'
    And just as a bulky sugar-puncheon,
    All ready staved, like a great sun shone
    Glorious scarce an inch before me,
    Just as methought it said, 'Come, bore me!'
    --I found the Weser rolling o'er me."


VIII.

    You should have heard the Hamelin people
    Ringing the bells till they rocked the steeple
    "Go," cried the Mayor, "and get long poles,
    Poke out the nests and block up the holes!
    Consult with carpenters and builders,
    And leave in our town not even a trace
    Of the rats!"--when suddenly up the face
    Of the Piper perked in the market-place,
    With a, "First, if you please, my thousand guilders!"


IX.

    A thousand guilders! The Mayor looked blue;
    So did the Corporation too.
    For council dinners made rare havoc
    With Claret, Moselle, Vin-de-Grave, Hock;
    And half the money would replenish
    Their cellar's biggest butt with Rhenish.
    To pay this sum to a wandering fellow
    With a gipsy coat of red and yellow!
    "Beside," quoth the Mayor with a knowing wink,
    "Our business was done at the river's brink;
    We saw with our eyes the vermin sink,
    And what's dead can't come to life, I think.
    So, friend, we're not the folks to shrink
    From the duty of giving you something to drink,
    And a matter of money to put in your poke;
    But as for the guilders, what we spoke
    Of them, as you very well know, was in joke.
    Beside, our losses have made us thrifty.
    A thousand guilders! Come, take fifty!"


X.

    The Piper's face fell, and he cried,
    "No trifling! I can't wait, beside!
    I've promised to visit by dinner-time
    Bagdad, and accept the prime
    Of the Head-Cook's pottage, all he's rich in,
    For having left, in the Caliph's kitchen,
    Of a nest of scorpions no survivor:
    With him I proved no bargain-driver,
    With you, don't think I'll bate a stiver!
    And folks who put me in a passion
    May find me pipe after another fashion."


XI.

    "How?" cried the Mayor, "d' ye think I brook
    Being worse treated than a Cook?
    Insulted by a lazy ribald
    With idle pipe and vesture piebald?
    You threaten us, fellow? Do your worst,
    Blow your pipe there till you burst!"


XII.

    Once more he stept into the street,
      And to his lips again
    Laid his long pipe of smooth straight cane;
      And ere he blew three notes
                                     (such sweet
    Soft notes as yet musician's cunning
      Never gave the enraptured air)
    There was a rustling,
    that seemed like a bustling
    Of merry crowds justling at pitching and hustling,
    Small feet were pattering, wooden shoes clattering,
    Little hands clapping and little tongues chattering,
    And, like fowls in a farm-yard when barley is scattering,
    Out came the children running.
    All the little boys and girls,
    With rosy cheeks and flaxen curls,
    And sparkling eyes and teeth like pearls.
    Tripping
    and skipping,
    ran merrily after
    The wonderful music with shouting and laughter.


XIII.

    The Mayor was dumb, and the Council stood
    As if they were changed into blocks of wood,
    Unable to move a step, or cry
    To the children merrily skipping by.
    --Could only follow with the eye
    That joyous crowd at the Piper's back.
    But how the Mayor was on the rack,
    And the wretched Council's bosoms beat,
    As the Piper turned from the High Street
    To where the Weser rolled its waters
    Right in the way of their sons and daughters!
    However he turned from South to West,
    And to Koppelberg Hill his steps addressed,
    And after him the children pressed;
    Great was the joy in every breast.
    "He never can cross that mighty top!
    He's forced to let the piping drop,
    And we shall see our children stop!"
    When, lo, as they reached the mountain-side,
    A wondrous portal opened wide,
    As if a cavern was suddenly hollowed;
    And the Piper advanced and the children followed,
    And when all were in to the very last,
    The door in the mountain side shut fast.
    Did I say, all? No; One was lame,
    And could not dance the whole of the way;
    And in after years, if you would blame
    His sadness, he was used to say,--
    "It's dull in our town since my playmates left!
    I can't forget that I'm bereft
    Of all the pleasant sights they see,
    Which the Piper also promised me.
    For he led us, he said, to a joyous land,
    Joining the town and just at hand,
    Where waters gushed and fruit-trees grew,
    And flowers put forth a fairer hue,
    And everything was strange and new;
    The sparrows were brighter than peacocks here,
    And their dogs outran our fallow deer,
    And honey-bees had lost their stings,
    And horses were born with eagles' wings;
    And just as I became assured
    My lame foot would be speedily cured,
    The music stopped and I stood still,
    And found myself outside the hill,
    Left alone against my will,
    To go now limping as before,
    And never hear of that country more!"


XIV.

    Alas, alas for Hamelin!
      There came into many a burgher's pate
      A text which says that Heaven's gate
      Opes to the rich at as easy rate
    As the needle's eye takes a camel in!
    The Mayor sent East, West, North, and South,
    To offer the Piper, by word of mouth,
      Wherever it was men's lot to find him,
    Silver and gold to his heart's content,
    If he'd only return the way he went,
      And bring the children behind him.
    But when they saw 'twas a lost endeavour,
    And Piper and dancers were gone for ever,
    They made a decree that lawyers never
      Should think their records dated duly
    If, after the day of the month and year,
    These words did not as well appear,
    "And so long after what happened here
      On the Twenty-second of July,
    Thirteen hundred and seventy-six:"
    And the better in memory to fix
    The place of the children's last retreat,
    They called it, the Pied Piper's Street--
    Where any one playing on pipe or tabor,
    Was sure for the future to lose his labour.
    Nor suffered they hostelry or tavern
      To shock with mirth a street so solemn;
    But opposite the place of the cavern
      They wrote the story on a column,
    And on the great church-window painted
    The same, to make the world acquainted
    How their children were stolen away,
    And there it stands to this very day.
    And I must not omit to say
    That in Transylvania there's a tribe
    Of alien people that ascribe
    The outlandish ways and dress
    On which their neighbours lay such stress,
    To their fathers and mothers having risen
    Out of some subterraneous prison
    Into which they were trepanned
    Long time ago in a mighty band
    Out of Hamelin town in Brunswick land,
    But how or why, they don't understand.


XV.

    So, Willy, let me and you be wipers
    Of scores out with all men--especially pipers!
    And, whether they pipe us free from rats or from mice,
    If we've promised them aught, let us keep our promise!





THE STORY OF THE THREE LITTLE PIGS.


Once upon a time there was an old Sow with three little Pigs,
and as she had not enough to keep them, she sent them out to seek their
fortune.







The first that went off met a Man with a bundle of straw, and said to
him, "Please, Man, give me that straw to build me a house"; which the
Man did, and the little Pig built a house with it. Presently came along
a Wolf, and knocked at the door, and said, "Little Pig, little Pig, let
me come in."

To which the Pig answered, "No, no, by the hair of my chinny chin chin."



"Then I'll huff and I'll puff, and I'll blow your house
in!" said the Wolf. So he huffed and he puffed, and he blew his house
in, and ate up the little Pig.

The second Pig met a Man with a bundle of furze, and said, "Please, Man,
give me that furze to build a house"; which the Man did, and the Pig
built his house.



Then along came the Wolf and said, "Little Pig, little Pig, let me come
in."

"No, no, by the hair of my chinny chin chin."

"Then I'll puff and I'll huff, and I'll blow your house in!" So he
huffed and he puffed, and he puffed and he huffed, and at last he blew
the house down, and ate up the second little Pig.



The third little Pig met a Man with a load of bricks, and said, "Please,
Man, give me those bricks to build a house with"; so the Man gave him
the bricks, and he built his house with them. So the Wolf came, as he
did to the other little Pigs, and said, "Little Pig, little Pig, let me
come in."

"No, no, by the hair of my chinny chin chin."

"Then I'll huff and I'll puff, and I'll blow your house in."

Well, he huffed and he puffed, and he huffed and he puffed, and he
puffed and he huffed; but he could _not_ get the house down. When he
found that he could not, with all his huffing and puffing, blow the
house down, he said, "Little Pig, I know where there is a nice field of
turnips."





"Where?" said the little Pig.

"Oh, in Mr. Smith's home-field; and if you will be ready to-morrow
morning, I will call for you, and we will go together and get some for
dinner."

"Very well," said the little Pig, "I will be ready. What time do you
mean to go?"

"Oh, at six o'clock."



Well, the little Pig got up at five, and got the turnips and was home
again before six. When the Wolf came he said, "Little Pig, are you
ready?"

"Ready!" said the little Pig, "I have been and come back again, and got
a nice pot-full for dinner."





The Wolf felt very angry at this, but thought that he would be _up to_
the little Pig somehow or other; so he said, "Little Pig, I know where
there is a nice apple-tree."

"Where?" said the Pig.

"Down at Merry-garden," replied the Wolf; "and if you will not deceive
me I will come for you, at five o'clock to-morrow, and we will go
together and get some apples."



Well, the little Pig woke at four the next morning, and bustled up, and
went off for the apples, hoping to get back before the Wolf came; but
he had farther to go, and had to climb the tree, so that just as he was
coming down from it, he saw the Wolf coming, which, as you may suppose,
frightened him very much. When the Wolf came up he said, "Little Pig,
what! are you here before me? Are they nice apples?"



"Yes, very," said the little Pig; "I will throw you down one." And he
threw it so far that, while the Wolf was gone to pick it up, the
little Pig jumped down and ran home.





The next day the Wolf came again, and said to the little Pig, "Little
Pig, there is a Fair in the Town this afternoon: will you go?"

"Oh, yes," said the Pig, "I will go; what time shall you be ready?"

"At three," said the Wolf.



So the little Pig went off before the time, as usual, and got to the
Fair, and bought a butter churn, and was on his way home with it when he
saw the Wolf coming. Then he could not tell what to do. So he got into
the churn to hide, and in doing so turned it round, and it began to
roll, and rolled down the hill with the Pig inside it, which frightened
the Wolf so much that he ran home without going to the Fair.





He went to the little Pig's house, and told him how frightened he had
been by a great round thing which came down the hill past him.

Then the little Pig said, "Hah! I frightened you, did I? I had been to
the Fair and bought a butter churn, and when I saw you I got into it,
and rolled down the hill."



Then the Wolf was very angry indeed, and declared he _would_ eat up the
little Pig, and that he would get down the chimney after him.



When the little Pig saw what he was about, he hung on the pot full of
water, and made up a blazing fire, and, just as the Wolf was coming
down, took off the cover of the pot, and in fell the Wolf. And the
little Pig put on the cover again in an instant, boiled him up, and ate
him for supper, and lived happy ever after.










This is a Tale about a tail--a tail that belonged to a little red
squirrel, and his name was Nutkin.

He had a brother called Twinkleberry, and a great many cousins: they lived
in a wood at the edge of a lake.



In the middle of the lake there is an island covered with trees and nut
bushes; and amongst those trees stands a hollow oak-tree, which is the
house of an owl who is called Old Brown.



One autumn when the nuts were ripe, and the leaves on the hazel bushes
were golden and green--Nutkin and Twinkleberry and all the other little
squirrels came out of the wood, and down to the edge of the lake.



They made little rafts out of twigs, and they paddled away over the water
to Owl Island to gather nuts.

Each squirrel had a little sack and a large oar, and spread out his tail
for a sail.



They also took with them an offering of three fat mice as a present for
Old Brown, and put them down upon his door-step.

Then Twinkleberry and the other little squirrels each made a low bow, and
said politely--

"Old Mr. Brown, will you favour us with permission to gather nuts upon
your island?"



But Nutkin was excessively impertinent in his manners. He bobbed up and
down like a little red _cherry_, singing--

    "Riddle me, riddle me, rot-tot-tote!
     A little wee man, in a red red coat!
     A staff in his hand, and a stone in his throat;
     If you'll tell me this riddle, I'll give you a groat."

Now this riddle is as old as the hills; Mr. Brown paid no attention
whatever to Nutkin.

He shut his eyes obstinately and went to sleep.



The squirrels filled their little sacks with nuts, and sailed away home in
the evening.



But next morning they all came back again to Owl Island; and Twinkleberry
and the others brought a fine fat mole, and laid it on the stone in front
of Old Brown's doorway, and said--

"Mr. Brown, will you favour us with your gracious permission to gather
some more nuts?"



But Nutkin, who had no respect, began to dance up and down, tickling old
Mr. Brown with a _nettle_ and singing--

    "Old Mr. B! Riddle-me-ree!
     Hitty Pitty within the wall,
     Hitty Pitty without the wall;
     If you touch Hitty Pitty,
     Hitty Pitty will bite you!"

Mr. Brown woke up suddenly and carried the mole into his house.



He shut the door in Nutkin's face. Presently a little thread of blue
_smoke_ from a wood fire came up from the top of the tree, and Nutkin
peeped through the key-hole and sang--

    "A house full, a hole full!
     And you cannot gather a bowl-full!"





The squirrels searched for nuts all over the island and filled their
little sacks.

But Nutkin gathered oak-apples--yellow and scarlet--and sat upon a
beech-stump playing marbles, and watching the door of old Mr. Brown.



On the third day the squirrels got up very early and went fishing; they
caught seven fat minnows as a present for Old Brown.

They paddled over the lake and landed under a crooked chestnut tree on Owl
Island.



Twinkleberry and six other little squirrels each carried a fat minnow; but
Nutkin, who had no nice manners, brought no present at all. He ran in
front, singing--

    "The man in the wilderness said to me,
    'How many strawberries grow in the sea?'
     I answered him as I thought good--
     'As many red herrings as grow in the wood.'"

But old Mr. Brown took no interest in riddles--not even when the answer
was provided for him.



On the fourth day the squirrels brought a present of six fat beetles,
which were as good as plums in _plum-pudding_ for Old Brown. Each beetle
was wrapped up carefully in a dock-leaf, fastened with a pine-needle pin.

But Nutkin sang as rudely as ever--

     "Old Mr. B! riddle-me-ree
      Flour of England, fruit of Spain,
      Met together in a shower of rain;
      Put in a bag tied round with a string,
    If you'll tell me this riddle, I'll give you a ring!"


Which was ridiculous of Nutkin, because he had not got any ring to give to
Old Brown.



The other squirrels hunted up and down the nut bushes; but Nutkin
gathered robin's pincushions off a briar bush, and stuck them full of
pine-needle pins.



On the fifth day the squirrels brought a present of wild honey; it was so
sweet and sticky that they licked their fingers as they put it down upon
the stone. They had stolen it out of a bumble _bees'_ nest on the tippitty
top of the hill.

But Nutkin skipped up and down, singing--

    "Hum-a-bum! buzz! buzz! Hum-a-bum buzz!
      As I went over Tipple-tine
      I met a flock of bonny swine;
    Some yellow-nacked, some yellow backed!
      They were the very bonniest swine
      That e'er went over Tipple-tine."



Old Mr. Brown turned up his eyes in disgust at the impertinence of Nutkin.

But he ate up the honey!



The squirrels filled their little sacks with nuts.

But Nutkin sat upon a big flat rock, and played ninepins with a crab apple
and green fir-cones.



On the sixth day, which was Saturday, the squirrels came again for the
last time; they brought a new-laid _egg_ in a little rush basket as a last
parting present for Old Brown.

But Nutkin ran in front laughing, and shouting--

    "Humpty Dumpty lies in the beck,
     With a white counterpane round his neck,
     Forty doctors and forty wrights,
     Cannot put Humpty Dumpty to rights!"



Now old Mr. Brown took an interest in eggs; he opened one eye and shut it
again. But still he did not speak.



Nutkin became more and more impertinent--

      "Old Mr. B! Old Mr. B!
    Hickamore, Hackamore, on the King's kitchen door;
    All the King's horses, and all the King's men,
    Couldn't drive Hickamore, Hackamore,
    Off the King's kitchen door."

Nutkin danced up and down like a _sunbeam_; but still Old Brown said
nothing at all.



Nutkin began again--

    "Arthur O'Bower has broken his band,
     He comes roaring up the land!
     The King of Scots with all his power,
     Cannot turn Arthur of the Bower!"

Nutkin made a whirring noise to sound like the _wind_, and he took a
running jump right onto the head of Old Brown!...

Then all at once there was a flutterment and a scufflement and a loud
"Squeak!"

The other squirrels scuttered away into the bushes.



When they came back very cautiously, peeping round the tree--there was Old
Brown sitting on his door-step, quite still, with his eyes closed, as if
nothing had happened.

      

_But Nutkin was in his waistcoat pocket!_



This looks like the end of the story; but it isn't.



Old Brown carried Nutkin into his house, and held him up by the tail,
intending to skin him; but Nutkin pulled so very hard that his tail broke
in two, and he dashed up the staircase and escaped out of the attic
window.



And to this day, if you meet Nutkin up a tree and ask him a riddle, he
will throw sticks at you, and stamp his feet and scold, and shout--

"Cuck-cuck-cuck-cur-r-r-cuck-k-k!"


THE END


